China has missed a golden opportunity to export corn and earn millions of dollars, and now has up to a million tonnes of the grain rotting in silos in the country's north, Far East traders said on Tuesday.
"This year is going to be a major disaster," a Hong Kong trader said.
"All that corn sitting in Dalian is just rotting," he said, adding his estimate that 500,000 to one million tonnes of corn was stored in northern silos in anticipation of exports.
Corn, grown predominantly in China's far northeastern provinces of Heilongjiang, Jilin and Liaoning, began moving to northern ports, particularly Dalian, around May, traders said.
"People had geared up for a huge export programme and I think the traditional northeast suppliers anticipated two million tonnes being permissioned for export," a trader in Singapore said.
Concern about national food security and the impact on domestic prices that exports would have in an atmosphere of acute inflationary paranoia had kept China out of the world corn market, trading sources said.
Corn and rice exports were banned in December 1994 after stocks fell to frighteningly low levels in a country where the governing Communist Party bases much of its ruling mandate on availability and affordability of staple foods.
Imports soon began, totalling 5.18 million tonnes in 1995. Corn imports in the first five months of 1996 were 400,000 tonnes, customs figures show.
Expectations began building in April that China's central grain authorities would allow corn exports to take advantage of high world prices and also to ease a local surplus and push up softening domestic prices. Prices had dropped below $120 a tonne in some areas.
Word at the time from traders involved in negotiations with China's central grain reserve on what nature the exports should take -- barter or cash -- was that the corn would be sold mostly to Japan and South Korea at around $180 a tonne.
"There was a stage when they could have got $180, and from the inverse they could have picked up $20 a tonne selling FOB (free on board) and picking up from the U.S. six months later," the Singapore trader said. "They missed a big opportunity."
A few hundred thousand tonnes of Chinese corn was sold to Japan, South Korea, Indonesia and Malaysia, or bartered for equipment supplied by Japanese food processing corporations as part of joint-venture deals, industry sources said.
China's government, however, remained adamant that the export ban had not been lifted.
Officials of the newly-established Jilin Grain Group, set up by the Jilin provincial government and opened for business on Monday, told Reuters the province had its biggest stockpile in history, some three million tonnes.
The company was applying for the right to import and export corn "in order to solve the problem of huge corn stockpiles," an official of the company said.
Official figures put 1995 corn production at 101 million tonnes. Output in 1996 has been projected by media to hit 112 million tonnes. Annual demand is 100-115 million tonnes.
Traders and grain industry sources have said China's total corn reserves are up to 30 million tonnes.
Traders said that while owners of the corn stocked at northern ports such as Dalian, Yingkou and Qinghuangdao had lost money on transport, storage and deterioration, the grain was now slowly being absorbed back into the domestic market.
The Freight Connection Inc said Tuesday its net income for the past six months was down to $115,797 from $144,847 for the same period last year.
Revenues for the six-month period, which ended June 30, were $10.244 million, up $1.060 million for the same period in 1995.
Company president Michael Jackson said the net income reflects the start-up costs associated with opening a new office in Atlanta.
But, he said in a statement, the new office already has brought in new business.
Development of the U.S. corn crop in some key states remained behind normal last week, and crop conditions in the eastern Corn Belt deteriorated due to a lack of rain, state agricultural statistics services reported.
"Most reporters felt that corn and beans are about a week behind normal and could use some warmer weather to help speed up growth," the Iowa Agricultural Statistics Services said.
The condition of Iowa corn declined slightly, with 75 percent of the crop rated good to excellent, down from 77 percent a week earlier.
Cool, dry weather also hindered development in Illinois, where 41 percent of the crop had reached the dough stage, versus the average of 74 percent.
The Illinois crop was rated 47 percent good to excellent, down from fifty-two percent in that category the week earlier.
Nebraska was the only major corn-producing state where crop development was about at average pace. Fifty-eight percent of the crop had reached the dough stage as of Sunday, compared with the average of 57. Nine percent of the crop had reached the dent stage, versus the average of 18.
Nebraska corn was rated 83 percent good to excellent -- little changed from the prior week.
In Indiana, however, persistent dry weather caused a decline in corn ratings, with the crop rated 42 percent good to excellent versus 52 percent a week earlier.
Indiana topsoil moisture was rated 60 percent short to very short and subsoil moisture was 47 percent short to very short.
Corn in dough stage was 13 days behind schedule at 38 percent doughing versus the average of 75.
Ohio corn also was far behind the normal pace, with 12 percent of the crop in the dough stage, compared with the average of 70.
But Ohio crop conditions improved, with 45 percent rated good to excellent versus 39 the week earlier.
The Finnish markka faced a revaluation in the European Union's (EU) agrimonetary system as it stepped into a process of assessment for up to 50 days, the UK's Home-Grown Cereal Authority (HGCA) said.
It said the green markka had an average real agrimonetary gap (RMG) of 5.205 percent with the exchange rate at the end of the 10-day reference period on Tuesday and would enter the first of possibly five confirmation periods.
For a revaluation, an RMG of above five percent must be confirmed for five periods if the currency has not been devalued in the last three years.
Green rates are used in calculating EU farm subsidies in terms of national currencies and have no direct impact on exchange rates.
An exchange of diplomatic expulsions between Havana and Washington is worsening the tussle between the two sworn foes over U.S. attempts to strangle the Cuban economy with new sanctions.
The State Department disclosed on Monday that Cuba last week cancelled the visa of an official at the U.S. interests section in Havana, Robin Meyer. In response, the department ordered out a Cuban diplomat in Washington, Jose Luis Ponce.
Meyer, known to have been particularly active in her contacts with opponents of Cuba's one-party communist system, was an obvious target for the wrath of the Havana authorities.
U.S. officials played down a direct link with the sanctions issue and there were suggestions that the Cuban authorities had delayed expelling Meyer until her visa came up for its annual renewal.
One official called it "another example of the Cubans' intolerance of anything or anyone that questions their government's viewpoint on things." The official expected no more tit-for-tat expulsions by either side.
But Ponce, the expelled Cuban, singled out this year's anti-Cuban U.S. legislation, known as the Helms-Burton Act after its sponsors in Congress, as the key factor in the latest bout of tension between the two countries.
"I think the approval of the Helms-Burton Act has been the most important element in the deterioration of the relations between Cuba and the United States," he said in an interview with Reuters Television.
Passed in March, the act attempts to isolate Cuba -- portrayed in Washington as the last authoritarian regime in the Western hemisphere -- by threatening sanctions against some foreign companies that do business there.
The U.S. effort, which resulted in executives of a leading Mexican firm being told this week that they would be banned from the United States, has exacerbated the long-running war of words between Washington and Havana.
Cuba, for instance, issued a testy note last Sunday complaining that the United States had so far repatriated only 16 of 27 illegal Cuban emigrants who were intercepted off Florida last week. It called this a "flagrant violation" of migration agreements between the two countries.
The declared aim of the United States is to bring democracy and a free market to Cuba, but a debate -- heavily influenced by domestic U.S. politics -- has long raged within the administration over the best way to achieve that goal.
Should the government of President Fidel Castro be crushed into the ground by tightening still further the 35-year-old sanctions against the island, as many Cuban-American activists and their supporters argue?
Or would it be more effectively undermined by encouraging more interchange between Cuba and the capitalist outside world, an approach some say worked with formerly communist Eastern Europe but that critics say has failed with Cuba?
In an attempt to get the best of both worlds, the Clinton administration has pursued a twin-track policy of tightening sanctions but promoting individual contacts by easing telephone traffic with Cuba.
Clinton actually opposed Helms-Burton until Havana forced him to change his stand by shooting down two light aircraft flown by Cuban exiles off the coast of Cuba last February, creating an outcry in the United States.
The administration is clearly anxious to minimise the impact of the law on U.S. allies in Europe, Canada and Mexico, who have protested bitterly that its overseas reach amounts to an attempt to push them around.
So far just two companies -- Canada's Sherritt International Corp. and Mexico's Grupo Domos -- have been sanctioned for investing in property confiscated by the Cuban government. Their executives have been banned from U.S. soil.
U.S. officials say between six and 10 other companies have quietly told Washington they are pulling out of confiscated property. But Cuban Vice President Carlos Lage this week laughed off the act's effectiveness, saying "it will either have to be withdrawn or halted or people will get around it".
Clinton has, in fact, suspended for six months a key provision of the act allowing original owners of the property to sue foreign companies. And last week he appointed Under Secretary of Commerce Stuart Eizenstat, a former ambassador to the European Union, to placate angry allies and persuade them to agree on a joint strategy to promote democracy in Cuba.
The pay-off, U.S. officials say, would be a further suspension of the controversial provision on lawsuits, which may never come into effect.
The following floating-rate issue was announced by lead manager HSBC Markets.
The National Bank of Poland cut the maximum accepted rate at its 14-day reverse repo by 0.13 point to 19.12 percent and drained 317 million zlotys from the market after banks bid to place 619 million, the NBP said.
The average accepted rate at the reverse NBP-bill repurchase auction was 19.02 percent.
Total planned issue amount was 1.5 billion markka. After today's auction, the outstanding amount of treasury bills is 45,042 million markka, the STO said.
Crude oil prices in Asia were firmer after an overnight Brent and NYMEX rally as players continued to assess the market ahead of fresh month trading.
The Brent/Dubai widened out to $1.90/$2.00 from a day-earlier $1.70/$1.90 following the latest leg in Brent's rally.
Dubai intermonth quotes were steady at 28-32 cents for October/November and November/December versus a day-earlier October/November 30-32 cents and November/December 29-33 cents.
At 1000 GMT Brent October futures were down 15 cents on the day at $20.70 and NYMEX trading on ACCESS was last traded at $23.02, down from $23.26 in New York.
Traders said there was demand for light sweet crudes to replace Australian barrels or for jet rich crude ahead of the fourth quarter.
A major with Australian operations bought 300,000 barrels of September Shua from a producer at Tapis quotes plus 55 cents.
Production at the 110,000 barrels per day (bpd) Cossack field in Australia could be cut back in September to as little as 50,000 bpd while a gas problem is sorted out.
In addition, the Shell refinery is facing strike action and Mobil's refinery is expected back at 80 percent production rate by Wednesday while they bring a cracker back up. But production will be below peak next week for repairs on a crude unit.
MidEast talk was quiet and players tested market sentiment. Oman values were put at flat to the MPM to seven cents premium.
Austrian oil and chemicals group OMV AG said on Tuesday it planned to reduce the number of gasoline stations it operates in Austria over the next three years while expanding its network in neighbouring countries.
OMV operates 284 filling stations in Germany, Slovenia, Hungary, Slovakia, the Czech Republic, northern Italy and Croatia. In Austria it has 779 filling stations.
Director Tassilo Peyrer-Heimstaett told a news conference that the firm aimed to open an additional 100 outlets abroad by the end of 1998. He forecast OMV's network in Austria would shrink to 570 stations over the same period.
"In Austria we will undertake a massive closure programme at the same time as we invest in high volume outlets," Peyrer-Heimstaett said.
Source: Canadian Department of Foreign Affairs and International Trade, Export and Import Controls Bureau.
From April 1, Canadian lumber exports which exceed quarterly or annual quotas are subject to export fees.
This export data is based on Canadian export permits. There is a one-week lag between the entry of softwood lumber into the United States and the application for a Canadian permit.
Bahrain will appoint new members to its consultative Shura council in September who may include people selected from boards of national societies, a government official said on Tuesday.
"The political leaders take into consideration popular representation in choosing members of the Shura council. Those members might have been elected members in societies and institutions," the official said.
"It was expected that the names of new members would be announced in September ahead of the new session of the Shura council," he told Reuters. The official declined to say how many members of the 30-member council would be replaced or give further details.
The official was commenting on a report in Akhbar al-Khaleej newspaper on Tuesday which said half the members of the council were expected to be selected from boards of national societies.
Bahrain's Emir Sheikh Isa bin Sulman al-Khalifa promised in June to develop the Shura council and give it more say in the Gulf state's affairs.
He said Bahrain would increase the membership of the council to widen popular representation and increase its power to "study requirements of the citizens and the services provided to them".
Restoration of an elected assembly dissolved in 1975 was a key demands by dissidents in anti-government protests which began in Bahrain, the Gulf's mainly financial centre, in December 1994.
The Shura council was appointed in 1992 to help the government run the island's political and economic affairs.
It gives views on draft laws submitted by Bahrain's cabinet before they are sent to the Emir for final approval.
Yield differentials should play a limited roll in dollar trading in the wake of the Federal Reserve's decision to leave interest rates unchanged Tuesday, even if the Bundesbank trims its repo rate on Thursday, economists said.
"It will have very little impact on the foreign exchange market because (the market) responds more to surprises than to expected news," said Marc Chandler, senior currency analyst at Deutsche Morgan Grenfell.
"The market focus shifts quickly to the Bundesbank council meeting on Thursday," he added.
But a modest reduction in the repo's current fixed rate of 3.3 percent could be swallowed by daily variations in Euromark and U.S. dollar deposit rates, diminishing any yield advantage for the dollar.
Meanwhile, interest rate differentials are a relatively unimportant variable in determining the dollar value versus the yen, analysts said.
Despite offering some of the lowest short-term interest rates in the world, Japan still has one of the world's strongest currencies.
M-3 grew at an annualized rate of 8.6 percent in July, slower than June's 9.6 percent pace, but still surpassing the Buba's 4.0-to-7.0 percent target.
But Euromark futures barely budged after the money supply data, suggesting both M-3 and a rate cut on Thursday had already been discounted by the market, said one expert.
Dollar/yen movements have a greater correlation with changes in trade relationships than interest rate spreads, analysts noted.
Even so, Japan is expected to ensure that yield differentials do not move in favor of the yen any time soon.
Many analysts think the Bank of Japan will delay hiking interest rates from record low levels until after an expected Fed tightening later this year.
"It seems the odds have shifted away from a discount rate hike this year in Japan," said Chandler. "Instead there are some people who think Japan wants the U.S. to raise interest rates first, before they do."
This could mean a long wait before the BOJ moves the discount rate up from 0.5 percent, where it has stood since September.
"A lot of Fed-watchers are pushing back the time they think the Fed will raise rates, said Kevin Harris, international economist at MCM CurrencyWatch. "Not only not today, but not September and maybe not this year."
"That pushes off the date of any change in differentials for another five months or more," he added.
The International Monetary Fund executive board is scheduled to discuss resuming its economic program with Russia on Wednesday, monetary sources said Tuesday.
The board will review a mission examination of Russia's finances and if it is satisfied with the country's performance, could release the delayed $330 million tranche of the lending agency's $10 billion loan deal, the sources said.
Thomas Wolf, head of the IMF office in Moscow said earlier in Moscow he was satisfied Russia had undertaken necessary revenue measures, allowing the program to go forward.
Moody's Investors Service - Rating Announcement As of 08/19/96.
    Issuer		: Hurst-Euless-Bedford I.S.D. PSF-gtd.
New Zealand's ASB Bank Ltd said on Tuesday its after-tax operating profit rose 9.8 percent to NZ$71.8 million for the year to June 30.
ASB said its share of the retail banking market was 14 percent, an increase of about half over five years.
ASB is 75 percent owned by Commonwealth Bank of Australia, in which the Australian government has sold down its majority stake to the private sector, and 25 percent by the ASB Bank Community Trust.
The revenue reserves carried imputation credits which could otherwise have been lost to shareholders as CBA's shareholding changed.
New home loans for the year totalled NZ$2.5 billion, up 43.6 percent. Total deposits at year-end stood at $8.2 billion, up 21.3 percent.
Operating income rose 10.1 percent to $348.6 million while operating expenses rose 8.8 percent to $228.2 million.
Tax rose to $39.3 million from $35.8 million in 1995, while provision for bad and doubtful debts was up $5.0 million at $34.7 million. This was made up of $3.6 million in specific provisions and $31.1 million (up from $24.0 million) as a general provision.
ASB said it was likely high interest rates would prevail in the first six months of the current financial year which began on July 1, dampening demand from business and personal borrowers.
"While business growth in the current financial year will undoubtedly be more modest than achieved in 1995/96, ASB Bank is looking forward to another successful year," it said.
Hurricane Dolly slammed into Mexico's Yucatan Peninsula on Tuesday, dumping heavy rains and whipping up rough seas although causing no reported loss of life, authorities said.
Dolly touched land 12.5 miles (20 km) south of the port of Felipe Carrillo Puerto on the Caribbean coast of Quintana Roo state, the National Meterological Service said.
National radio network Radio Red reported that around 800 people had been evacuated from Punta Allen and Solidaridad, two sparsely populated communities close to where Dolly came ashore.
Dolly, the fourth weather system of this Atlantic season, packed sustained winds of 75 mph (120 kmh) and gusts of 94 mph (150 kmh) and kicked up waves of up to 13 feet (4 metres) as it rolled into flat, mainly agricultural farmland close to the border with Belize.
Officials from the Quintana Roo Civil Protection Agency said the hurricane dumped heavy rains across the region, but they had received no reports of deaths.
Quintana Roo Gov. Mario Villanueva told reporters that state emergency brigades had been sent to where Dolly touched land to ascertain damage to crops, mostly corn and beans, that are crucial to the livelihood of local residents.
Tourists at the resort here and in nearby Cozumel and Isla Mujeres appeared little troubled by the hurricane, although some complained of the overcast skies and rain.
But 29 ports in four states were closed across southern Mexico to small shipping because of the rough seas created by Dolly, the Communications and Transport Ministry said.
In Miami, the National Hurricane Centre said the storm had been downgraded again to a tropical storm by 5 p.m. EDT (2100 GMT), and gave its location as latitude 19.5 north, longitude 88.6 west, about 120 miles (192 km) southeast of Merida, Mexico.
The storm was moving to the west-northwest at 14 mph (22 kph), the centre said.
Maximum sustained winds had dropped to 60 mph (96 kph) as the storm moved over land and some further weakening was expected during the next 12 hours, forecasters said.
It was expected to move over Gulf waters early on Wednesday and to approach the Texas-Mexico border on Thursday.
Forecasters said Dolly was likely to strengthen again once it reached the warm waters of the Gulf of Mexico.
Ecuador's money base rose 3.5 percent to 2.59 billion sucres in the week to August 9, the Central Bank said Tuesday.
In the previous week to August 2, money base grew 7.42 percent.
The money base ended 1995 at 2.41 billion sucres, up from 1.85 billion sucres at the end of 1994.
Wella AG, the German haircare group, on Tuesday reported healthy growth in sales and earnings in the first six months as new product launches helped it outpace the market.
Operating profit rose 25 percent to 61 million marks ($40.95 million) while sales expanded 11.3 percent to 1.82 billion marks, the company said in its interim report.
It predicted full-year sales would rise by seven to 10 percent and said earnings growth was likely to be stronger.
"We are anticipating a continuation of the positive business development in the second half of 1996," Wella said.
But the news failed to give buoyancy to Wella's shares. The ordinary shares closed down nine marks or one percent at 888 marks. Preference shares closed little changed at 900 marks, down 0.10 marks, after recovering from a day's low of 885.
Pre-tax profit totalled 61 million marks, down from 83 million marks in the year-earlier period, but Wella said the year-earlier figure contained 35 million marks of extraordinary income from the dissolution of provisions no longer required.
The first-half operating earnings growth marks a turnaround from 1995 when net profit slumped 41 percent to 74.2 million marks amid adverse currency movements and operational problems.
Wella in April predicted net profit would rebound 25 percent in 1995.
The sales rise of 11.3 percent outstripped market growth of less than three percent, Wella said. Wella also said it achieved an increase of 7.9 percent in sales to hairdressers despite a stagnating hairdressing market.
Sales of haircare products to retailers jumped 21.3 percent, well above expectations, Wella said. "Our new product concepts have been very well received worldwide," it said.
Sales of scents and cosmetics rose 12.4 percent in the first half due to successful product launches.
Domestic sales were 574 million marks versus 533 million, while sales abroad rose to 1.24 billion marks from 1.1 billion.
A Wella spokesman said the improvement in the first six months was due in part to Wella's foreign subsidiaries which managed to recover from losses posted last year in China, Russia and Britain.
German subsidiaries like Muelhens, the maker of the 4711 Eau de Cologne, improved sharply while Wella's core domestic business did not perform as well, the spokesman said.
That is reflected in figures for the parent company which reported its sales trimmed by 5.3 percent to 415 million marks while pre-tax profit was unchanged at 33 million marks.
Note-Cocoa products contain no sugar or milk products. X-Whole or broken, raw or roasted. Y-Includes fat and oil.
Under Nicaragua's archaic penal code, a woman who cheats on her spouse can be jailed for two years, the same sentence that a jealous husband could face if he killed his wife.
Nicaraguan lawmakers recently took the first steps to overhaul the country's outdated penal code, although legal experts said there is still a long way to go in placing women's rights alongside a man's honour.
"The penal code is totally sexist. In its defence of the father's honour it sacrifices the rights of women and children," said Angela Rosa Acevedo of the private Centre for Constitutional Rights.
Legislators last week voted to modernise family violence laws and scrap adultery as a crime for women. The bill still must be signed by President Violeta Chamorro before it becomes law, but lawyers praised the move as a good first step.
"(That) was the first step in the separation of law and morality in our society," said Sergio Cuaresma, a penal expert.
Currently, a woman can be sentenced to two years in prison for adultery, while a man can have as many lovers as he wants, punishable only when "he keeps a mistress within the marital home or in a public fashion that causes a scandal," the law says.
If a man murders his wife and/or her lover in the heat of passion after catching them "in the act," he can face two to five years in prison. He faces a similar term if he kills a man he catches in bed with his daughter, if she is under 21 years old.
Dueling among men is still legal.
"The penal code needs to be changed because it collides head on with constitutional principles and has no relevance to the problems now facing Nicaraguan society," Cuaresma said.
The code even requires a man's approval if a woman is to have an abortion to protect her health, the only kind of abortion legal in Nicaragua, according to Acevedo.
While more outdated parts of the law are not adhered to, some cases are successfully brought to court based on the code, legal experts said.
Nicaragua's Supreme Court is currently demanding an "urgent" reform of this "legal museum piece" to bring the country into the modern era, Acevedo said.
IMI's forecast for 1996 earnings per share (EPS) is based on the firm's current 6.06 million shares outstanding against 571,000 shares as of December 31, 1995, it said.
The dramatic increase in the number of IMI shares is mainly due to a share split the company carried out on May 1. IMI split each of its shares, which had a face value of 500 yen, into 10 shares with a 50-yen face value. It also issued an additional 350,000 shares on July 24, IMI said.
Fletcher Challenge and China's Citifor will each own 37.5 percent of the consortium that bought Forestry Corp of New Zealand while Brierley Investments will get 25 percent, the Government said.
The government said it would use the proceeds of its sale of Forestry Corp to repay foreign debt and that that would leave it in a position of having no net foreign debt.
Treasury estimated foreign debt at NZ$1.1 billion at June 30 and it peaked in 1992 at over NZ$16 billion.
"Once we have received the cash we will use it to eliminate the government's net foreign currency debt," Finance Minister Bill Birch said.
"The government will move to zero net foreign-foreign currency debt for only the second time since 1857," Birch said.
The last time there was no net foreign debt was in 1954 after the Korean War when wool prices were very high.
California's Secretary of State said on Tuesday an initiative that would limit spending by school districts on administration qualified for the June 1998 ballot.
The initiative would prohibit schools from spending more than five percent of funds from all sources for costs of administration. The initiative would require the state Board of Education to fine districts that fail to comply.
The initiative, called "School. Spending Limits on Administration," is the first initiative to qualify for the June 1998 ballot, Secretary of State Bill Jones said.
Dhaka stocks closed 1.4 percent higher on Tuesday as the market bounced back to end three days of correction, brokers said.
The Dhaka Stock Exchange price index rose 16.23 points to 1,139.66 on a turnover of 98.1 million taka. Of the total 114 issues traded 83 gained, 27 lost and four remained unchanged.
Singer Bangladesh rose 3.60 to 10,331.22, Bata Shoe Company gained 1.41 to 123.97, Beximco Pharmaceuticals fell 0.73 to 87.04 and Reckitt and Colman was up 1.42 at 165.
Brokers said share prices were now expected to move up in the next couple of days amid fresh buying.
Pakistan Air Force's business and welfare group Shaheen Foundation joined a Dutch-Indonesian consortium on Tuesday to bid for the state-run Pakistan Telecommunication Company Ltd (PTCL).
A Shaheen Foundation statement said it had joined with Setdco group of Indonesia and Dutch PTT Telecom to bid for a 26 percent strategic stake and management control of PTCL.
Pakistan is yet to announce a date for the bidding.
"If successful this consortium would not only bring over $2 billion in foreign exchange but also modernise and expand the present communication network in the country," it added.
Business executives from Setdco and PTT Telecom arrived in Islamabad on Tuesday for a three-day stay to meet and government and PTCL officials, said Zubair Ejaz, a Privatisation Commission consultant.
NOTE - Zenchiku Co Ltd is a leading meat trading company.
Summer gasoline demand may be about to peak, but heating oil is still the hot topic in U.S. oil markets, with traders saying they were expecting this week's API report to show a build in distillate stocks.
"We're at the most critical week of gasoline demand, but heating oil is the most important number," said Thomas Blakeslee, analyst at Cargill Investor Services.
Distillate stocks were expected to build by just 1.13 million barrels from 104.3 million barrels in the previous report -- a level over 20 million barrels below a year-ago.
"Certainly everyone's concentrating on the heating oil since we had a couple of counter-seasonal draws in the last few weeks," said Tom Bentz, analyst at ING Derivatives Clearing, noting any further draws were likely to make players even more bullish on heat than they already are.
Gasoline stocks will likely post a seasonal draw of 1.66 million barrels from week-ago levels of 197.6 million.
"I think there should be good demand on gasoline. In fact it's imperative (to stronger prices) that we see good demand on gasoline," said one Texas trader.
"A gasoline draw should be facilitated by a continued slow pace of import activity," said Jim Ritterbusch, a trader with Sweeney Oil in Chicago.
"Crude supplies are expected to draw further as U.S. Gulf and Midwest refineries maintain a strong operating pace. Imports are expected to decline from a recent strong eight million barrels per day," Ritterbusch said.
Indeed, analysts were split on whether refinery utilization rates would rise, with the Reuter survey arriving at a negligibly higher figure from the 94.7 percent rate recorded in API's week-ago report.
The karbovanets was unchanged at 176,100 per dollar on the Ukrainian Interbank Currency Exchange.
Russia's OAO Manezhnaya Ploshchad, which is building a $330.50 million shopping mall near the Kremlin, postponed its planned share issue by a week to August 19, lead manager OLMA brokerage said on Tuesday.
The postponement took place because a top official from Manezhnaya Ploshchad, who was to finalise the documents, was out of town, an OLMA official said.
The company, now fully-owned by the City of Moscow, is offering 15 million shares with a face value of 10,000 roubles at 12,500 roubles each to raise about $35.4 million.
She said some shares had already been sold to Moscow and regional companies, but the first official results would be known on Friday.
The shopping mall under Moscow's historic Manezh Square is one of the high-profile projects underway for the 850th anniversary of the city.
Roger Boyes, group finance director of Halifax Building Society, said on Tuesday the society expected to achieve its goal of a 40 percent cost/income ratio by the end of 1998.
In its interim results released earlier on Tuesday the society said its cost/income ratio had fallen from 43.0 percent to 41.4 percent.
The society has said it expects to cut 200 jobs in its head office by the end of 1997 as a result of its merger with rival society Leeds Permanent and chief executive Mike Blackburn said, without being specfic, that further jobs would be lost.
Blackburn told reporters at its interim results briefing that a further 120 branches would be closed.
Blackburn said he expected the merger with insurance group Clerical Medical, due to be completed at year-end, would be earnings enhancing next year.
U.S. corporate bonds ended Tuesday's session mostly unchanged, except for strong new issues, as Federal Reserve policymakers left interest rates untouched, dealers said.
Investment-grade yield spreads remained untested in light volume as U.S. Treasuries wallowed in a narrow trading range.
The Fed was almost universally expected to hold monetary policy pat and market reaction to its decision was little to none, dealers said.
After reworking the deal structure and shrinking the amount of proceeds, Sprint Spectrum LP priced its long-awaited $523 million (proceeds) deal in two-tranches via lead managers Merrill Lynch & Co and Lehman Brothers.
The first tranche of $250 million in 10-year senior notes priced at par with an 11 percent coupon. The issue gained after freed to trade, closing at a 101-1/4 bid, 102 offer.
The $140 million in senior notes due 2004 priced at 98.095 to yield 12 percent, but gained to a 98-3/4 bid, 99-1/2 offer by the close. The paper rates a B3/B-minus and was lead managed by Merrill Lynch & Co.
Standard & Poor's raised the company's corporate credit rating to B-minus from CCC-plus, reflecting the fact that the refinancing will allow the company to repay its outstanding debt and avoid onerous near-term maturities.
In other secondary trade, troubled Stratosphere first mortgage notes hung in a 81 bid, 83 offer market, unchanged from last Friday.
World sugar prices are forecast to fall at an underlying rate of more than two percent a year as cheaper alternative sweeteners increase their competitive pressure, a leading commodity expert said on Tuesday.
"If wages are to rise, successful sugar industries are likely to have to sustain yearly productivity increases of three percent or more if they are to remain competitive internationally," managing director of U.K.-based Landell Mills Commodities, James Fry, told the Sugar 2000 Symposium.
In a global view of the sugar industry, Fry said in every continent, sugar had lost market share since 1980 to cheaper,  calorie-free sweetener alternatives.
Sugar's proportion of world sweetener demand was below 80 percent in 1995 compared with more than 87 percent in 1980, Fry told the conference.
"If sugar had been able to do no better than maintain its share of the world sweetener market since 1980, sugar demand in 1995 would have been 10 percent-or over 11 million tonnes - higher than it actually was," Fry said.
"Production costs feed back to world prices," Fry said.
"Low-cost producers in Australia, Thailand, Brazil, India and southern Africa will therefore continue to grow in importance while the role of high-cost producers in Europe, the United States, the Caribbean and Eastern Asia will diminish," he said.
Fry said Australia's willingness to invest a higher proportion of sugar revenues in research and development than any other country "bodes well for the future."
"Australia's high yields in the field and good factory recoveries are targets for other producers (but) the gap between Australia's performance and that in other countries has shrunk," Fry said.
Technical progress was essential for international sugar industries' success, he said.
Fry said Australia, India and Thailand had lowered real field costs substantially since 1980. But when field and factory costs were combined, Thailand and Australia were the most competitive countries, he said.
Afghanistan's embattled government said on Tuesday it would open the main northern Salang highway next week to traffic as a result of peace talks with an opposition alliance controlling the area.
A government statement broadcast by the official Kabul Radio, monitored in Islamabad, said the Kabul-Salang highway would be open from August 26 or 27.
The decision was taken "as a result of talks with the (opposition) Supreme Coordination Council (alliance)" led by the Jumbish-i-Milli movement of powerful opposition warlord General Abdul Rashid Dostum, it said.
There was no immediate confirmation of the report.
The Salang highway, Afghanistan's main route to Central Asia, has been controlled by Dostum since he began fighting President Burhanuddin Rabbani's government in Kabul in January 1994 in alliance with Hezb-i-Islami party leader Gulbuddin Hekmatyar, then prime minister but rival to the president.
Hekmatyar rejoined the government as prime minister last June under a peace pact with Rabbani and sent an envoy to the northern town of Mazar-i-Sharif earlier this month to persuade Dostum to do the same.
On January 13, a Jumbish spokesman in Pakistan denied a Kabul Radio report that the two sides had agreed to a ceasefire in the north but said there was no fighting in the area these days.
Opening the Salang highway was one of the main objectives of Hekmatyar's envoy.
Continued quiet trading in Australian wheat futures on the Sydney Futures Exchange (SFE) surprised traders on Tuesday after Chicago's overnight gains.
Ten SFE trades took place in the January 1997 contract which rose A$3.00 to A$196.00 a tonne on the sale.
"Bit of a surprise considering there was a sharp turnaround in Chicago, Kansas and Winnipeg wheat. We thought the January price might have risen substantially, but it was not to be," Phil Lindsay of Ord Minnett Jardine Fleming Futures Ltd said.
An option deal on the SFE's overnight system SYCOM, involving 30 January A$190.00 put options at a A$10.50 premium, attracted attention.
Buyers were Australian farmers interested in hedging, Lindsay said.
"The option market appears to be more liquid than the actual futures," Lindsay said.
NOTE - ASW: Australian Standard White; APW: Australian Premium White; AH: Australian Hard; APH: Australian Prime Hard.
All prices delivered Newcastle apart from old crop ASW which is delivered Sydney.
Source: Australian Wheat Board NSW branch.
Germany's Karlsruhe grabbed a last-minute UEFA Cup place on Tuesday with a dramatic win in the final of the Intertoto Cup against Standard Liege of Belgium, who had three players sent off in the dying moments of the game.
Two substitutes scored in the last 10 minutes of the summer tournament to give Karlsruhe a 3-1 home win and cancel out Liege's 1-0 first leg victory.
Germany's European Championship winning midfielder Thomas Haessler put Karlsruhe level on aggregate with a 37th minute penalty, but Axel Lawaree put the Belgians ahead again in the 61st minute.
Needing two goals to win, Karlsruhe piled on the pressure.
Manfred Bender scored from a header in the 80th minute, four minutes after coming on. Markus Schroth, who had come on with Bender, fired in a rebound two minutes from time.
In the chaotic minutes which followed, Swedish referee Anders Frisk sent off libero Didier Ernst, and midfielders Guy Hellers and Roberto Bisconti for complaining.
Australia's new conservative government released its first budget on Tuesday, slashing spending to attack a chronic deficit, but honouring key election promises to support families and small business.
Costello said the five-month-old Liberal-National government had taken the tough decisions needed to turn Australia away from "a path to deficit and debt" in its first budget.
"This is the once in the term, once in the decade opportunity to get it right," Costello told reporters before delivering the first conservative government budget in 14 years.
The budget slashed A$3.9 billion from hundreds of government programmes, but centred largely on aboriginal affairs, universities and schemes to help the jobless find work.
The spending cuts, many of which had been announced ahead of the budget, have sparked widespread protests around the country and triggered rioting at Canberra's parliament house on Monday.
The sharp rise in Turkey's January-July budget deficit maintains pressure on the government to rein in spending and reduce its interest payment burden, analysts said on Tuesday.
The deficit in the seven months to July jumped to 564 trillion lira ($6.58 billion) from 103.3 trillion lira in the same 1995 period and compared with 475.4 trillion in the first half, Finance Minister Abdulatif Sener told a news conference.
"The deficit increase is going to accelerate in the last part of the year from September when markets are volatile," said Ali Seyhun, director of research at ATA Securities.
The Islamist-led coalition will have to start producing results soon from its economic reform plans if it is to meet its budget deficit target for the year as a whole, analysts said.
Shortly after the government came to power in late June, Sener revised the 1996 budget deficit target to 1,300 trillion lira from an original target of 861 trillion and compared with a deficit of 317 trillion in 1995.
Sener said tax revenues in the first seven months "inspired hope" for the government's plans, with receipts rising 100.7 percent from a year earlier compared with a target rise of 91.0 percent.
Budget revenues, including tax receipts of 1,103 trillion lira, amounted to 1,349 trillion lira.
The International Monetary Fund (IMF) said in a recent report that the government's fiscal strategy is a vital part of a reform process needed to curb annual inflation of over 80 percent and a deficit of more than six percent of gross national product.
"The government should act quickly to implement a major front-loaded fiscal adjustment combined with structural reforms," the IMF said.
The government's efforts to tighten fiscal policy are being undermined by domestic and foreign debt interest payments amounting to 44 percent of the government's total 1,913 trillion spending during the seven-month period.
The spearhead of the government's efforts to reduce the interest payment burden is a scheme to raise finance through foreign currency deals as part of a revenue-raising package aimed at raising $10 billion.
State Minister Ufuk Soylemez told Reuters earlier on Tuesday that Turkey will borrow between $500 million and $1 billion from Turkish banks in September through a club loan deal.
The deal is to be supplemented by the planned issue of foreign-currency-denominated bonds, through which the government aims to lengthen domestic borrowing maturities.
Analysts however remained cautious about the reform plans and their effectiveness.
A number of top executives in the telecommunications industry are abandoning the comforts of giant corporations for the thrills of building a new company and the hope of becoming seriously wealthy in the process.
"I think this is not for everybody," said Alex Mandl, who on Monday resigned as chief operating officer of AT&T Corp. to become chairman of Associated Communications, a tiny new company in the crowded arena of wireless services.
"It requires a willingness to step out of the comfort zone of big Corporate America," Mandl said in an interview.
New technology and a new era of competition are giving executives with key skills huge opportunities in new ventures, even as thousands of others are losing their jobs.
Small companies with good technology can now beat established giants thanks to opportunities from the auction of new wireless licenses and the convergence of communications, computers and entertainment.
Mandl is not the first. In January 1995 Jim Barksdale left AT&T wireless, where he was chief executive, to become president and chief executive of the then-obscure Netscape Communications Corp..
Across the technology field, start-ups have claimed Silicon Graphics Inc.  President Thomas Jermoluk, Dataquest Inc. Chief Executive Judy Hamilton, Sybase Inc. Chief Operating Officer David Peterschmidt and many others.
George Schmitt was chief executive of PCS PrimeCo, a national wireless venture where he had billions to spend building an advanced communications network for a group of regional Bells. Yet in August last year he took a half-million dollar pay cut to join little-known Omnipoint Corp.
What the recruiters expect is clear -- a winning market strategy, a star to attract a top management team and the use of wide industry contracts to minimize chances of failure.
The companies the executives leave usually recover, but can often take some short-term damage to their stock as investors try to work out the motivation for departure.
AT&T's stock fell $1.375 on Monday to $54.125 on news of Mandl's resignation. It added 12.5 cents Tuesday.
As well as the big names, hundreds of vice presidents and middle-ranking executives have left long-distance firms and regional Bells to work for new companies in the industry.
Many have tough decisions to make, trading in long hours and a comfortable if pedestrian salary progression for a crack at serious wealth -- but with hours only workaholics would enjoy.
"It is the opportunity to shape something risky, but a lot more satisfying," said consultant Mark Bruneau of COBA-MID.
Of course not even the big companies are so safe anymore. Greater competition and rapidly evolving technology are erasing the comfort zone for all but a few.
AT&T is cutting tens of thousands of jobs as part of its split into three parts, as are the regional Bells, who will soon be fighting head to head with AT&T in many markets.
In Mandl's case, it was an offer too good to refuse.
A $20 million signing bonus in cash to join Associated removes any personal worries should the new company fail, and dwarfs his AT&T salary of around $1.3 million.
"Most of the other opportunities are stock rich, not cash rich like this," said Bette Massick of brokers Bear Stearns.
Should Associated succeed wildly, then Mandl's share options, which convert to an 18 percent stake in the company, should provide still greater comfort.
Nevertheless, it could not have been an easy decision. Mandl, 52, was considered by analysts as heir apparent to AT&T Chairman Robert Allen.
Mandl declined to speculate whether his decision would have been the same if Allen were to retire this year instead of in three or four years.
"He (Allen) was always consistent that I was a good candidate to succeed him, but beyond that you have to earn your stripes," Mandl said.
Netscape's Barksdale is pure inspiration for risk takers.
"Barksdale had a terrific job at AT&T. He could have been a candidate for the top job," Mandl said.
But now even Robert Allen must dream about being as wealthy as Barksdale.
Netscape, a dominant force in the world of Web browsers for the Internet, was a roaring success after its initial public offering a year ago. Barksdale has sold 2.2 million Netscape shares, but his remaining six million shares are now worth a cool $222 million.
1515 GMT - Italian debt markets looking very soggy at close after future dropped through support level late in day. Lira standing by its recent 1,019-20 per mark area. Volumes reasonable for August. Politics at home giving background of nervousness but current focus on FOMC meeting.
10-yr Bunds 329bps.
* Futures:Sep LIF -27bps at 115.71. Sup 115.50, res 116.00. * Lira:steady at 1,019.50 per mark.
These are leading stories in this morning's Paris newspapers.
-- Tourism up sharply in August in France after slow July.
-- French customs impounded 45 percent more copies of brand name goods in 1995 than 1994.
-- German mark is firm in run-up to today's Federal Reserve Bank meeting and Thursday's Bundesbank policy council meeting.
-- Caisses d'Epargne is finalising a bid for Gan's banking unit CIC  and plans to revamp its own statutes.
-- Paris Bourse sluggish in run-up to corporate first half results announcements.
-- Banque Rivaud says the Canard Enchaine newspaper's revelations of a tax investigation at the bank were "isolated facts, biased and inaccurate".
-- Franc slips on foreign exchange markets as operators remain wary of 1997 national budget and slim chances of Bundesbank rate cuts on Thursday.
-- Prime Minister Alain Juppe says he will announce tax cuts within two weeks.
-- Matif chairman Gerard Pfauwadel explains failure of linkup with Germany's DTB futures market and outlines new strategy, preparing for the euro currency.
-- Air France Q2 passenger miles up 19 percent while revenue per passenger falls 11 percent but the airline still expects to break even in 1997.
-- European competition commissioner Karel Van Miert says he is impartial about whether a company is state-owned or private, but a commitment to privatise makes a government's request for EC approval of state subsidies more credible.
-- Bond and currency markets on tenterhooks, waiting for the Federal Reserve to take no action on interest rates.
-- Prime Minister Alain Juppe says there will be no announcements of fiscal reforms before a working meeting with President Jacques Chirac in Bregancon on August 24.
Rexene Corp said on Tuesday that it will pursue its own expansion plans, after privately- held Hunstman Corp dropped a $460 million unsolicited offer for the Dallas-based company.
"Rexene feels it has significant improvement and expansion programs underway that will enhance stockholder value," said Rexene Chairman Andrew Smith. "We will now go forward with our business plan."
Rexene twice rejected Huntsman's acquisition offer, saying the proposal was "inadequate."
Shares of Rexene tumbled 2-1/4 to 10-1/2 in after hours trading following the news.
The Philippine peso closed a shade higher at 26.189 on Tuesday from 26.191 as dollars continued to stream in to investments in long-term securities, traders said.
"More money is rushing into long-term bills before interest rates really drop," said a dealer. Central Bank Governor Gabriel Singson had said year-on-year inflation could fall below 6.5 percent in September. Inflation reached 8.9 percent in July.
The same dealer said more dollars are expected to come in if the U.S. Fed this Tuesday decides not to raise interest rates.
Latest Australian quarterly economic data.
CLAREMONT TECHNOLOGY GROUP, INC.
			    CLAREMONT TECHNOLOGY GROUP, INC.
U.S. Sen. Carol Moseley-Braun on Tuesday defended her recent trip to Nigeria against criticism from human rights groups, and denied that the affair had caused her chief of staff to resign.
The Illinois Democrat, the only black in the U.S. Senate, said her visit was "a private trip and certainly no secret."
She told a news conference that U.S. policy toward Nigeria's army ruler, Gen. Sani Abacha, has not been fair or even-handed and it was her duty as a senator to maintain a dialogue with him.
She also said she had a personal friendship with Abacha's wife and had known her son, Ibrahim, who was blown up in an airplane six months ago.
The Chicago Sun-Times reported on Friday that Moseley-Braun's chief of staff, Edie Wilson -- the third person to hold that post since she was elected to the Senate nearly four years ago -- had resigned because she had not been told of the Nigeria trip.
"My private staff was aware of my whereabouts," Moseley-Braun said, adding that the trip was a private vacation. She said Wilson had agreed to depart before the trip, and released a letter from her saying "we mutually concluded that it would be best to go our separate ways."
Amnesty International issued a statement last week calling the trip inappropriate and branding Nigeria "a major human rights violator." Randall Robinson, head of the African lobbying group TransAfrica, called her visit deeply troubling.
Nigeria's military rulers have been under international scrutiny for rights abuses since last November when nine minority rights activists were hanged for murder.
The West African state has been in turmoil since 1993 when it annulled a presidential vote to restore democracy. Since then, many people have been detained including the presumed winner of that plebiscite, Moshood Abiola, as well as pro-democracy activists and journalists.
Francois Leotard, the leader of France's UDF junior ruling coalition party, said on Tuesday flexibility on the Maastricht criteria for European monetary union could provide "oxygen" needed to boost the economy.
"This oxygen will come notably from lower interest rates and obtaining a temporary margin of flexibility on the Maastricht criteria," Leotard wrote in Le Monde newspaper.
He said there was no question of delaying the 1999 deadline for moving to a single European currency and he was "convinced the moment of truth would come before next summer" on transition to a single currency.
In the countdown period, he said "It would be a question of keeping the Maastricht criteria as objectives reflecting a medium term economic will."
"This decision is essentially political. It's a question of giving the Maastricht treaty its true interpretation: the single currency is the goal and the criteria are the means," he said.
The Maastricht treaty calls for countries to reduce their public deficits to three percent of Gross Domestic Product (GDP) but allows for overshooting, in the treaty's own words if "the ratio has declined substantially and continuously and reached a level that comes close to three percent".
Prime Minister Alain Juppe's conservative government has always insisted it will meet the three percent target. Economists are sceptical on this because of continued weak economic growth but widely believe the single currency can be achieved based on the treaty flexibility.
Leotard said in his Le Monde article that the short-term cost of preparing for monetary union was a "mechanical slowing" of the economy which prevented the government finding quick solutions for pressing problems.
Reducing public spending was "an absolute necessity" but would not produce benefits immediately, he said, adding that job creation would depend on better economic growth.
White House economic adviser Joseph Stiglitz said Tuesday he sees no major reversal in the improvement of the U.S. trade deficit with Japan.
Stiglitz said two factors should continue to help the trade picture -- the trade agreements negotiated with Japan and that country's economic recovery.
"I don't think that we have reached the full benefits of the trade agreements," he said. "It's also the case that Japan's recovery is still in (its) early stages, and if its recovery continues, that should also be good for our exports to Japan."
Stiglitz, chairman of the president's Council of Economic Advisers, suggested the U.S. trade deficit with China could worsen this year.
"It would be surprising if it were lower than last year's," the official said.
The Commerce Department reported on Tuesday that the overall U.S. trade deficit shrank dramatically in June, dropping 23.1 percent to $8.11 billion from a revised $10.55 billion in May.
The trade shortfall with China swelled 8.8 percent to $3.33 billion. It surpassed for the first time the $3.24 billion U.S. trade deficit with Japan, which was up 3.6 percent from May.
The company earlier reported a net profit for the year to June 30 of NZ$28.0 million, up from $22.2 million in the corresponding period last year.
Chairman Len Bleasel said the directors were pleased with the company's earnings improvement, which reflected increased natural gas and by-product sales and further significant reductions in operating costs.
Beasel said that generally, the company could look to the future with confidence.
The company said a significant post balance date event was the completion and distribution to the industry of a comprehensive Transmission Services Information Memorandum.
This updated protocols published by the company in 1994 and formalised the process for non-discriminatory open access to Natural Gas Corp's high pressure pipeline system under posted tariffs, terms and conditions.
As reported at the half year, the result included a non-recurring revenue gain of $4.5 million relating to previous period gas sales brought to income during the year under review. The after tax effect of this adjustment was a one-off earnings gain of $3.0 million.
Excluding this adjustment, earnings of $25.0 million were 12.6 percent higher, and revenues from product sales, pipeline transportation services and specialist contract services rose by 2.7 percent to $248.8 million.
Pre-adjustment earnings before interest and tax were 3.7 percent higher at $132.4 million.
Operating cash flows increased by 6.9 percent to $107 million and a year-end cash balance of $8.0 million, compared with $25.2 million a year previously. Bleasel said this reflected the company's commitment to debt reduction.
Total gas sales were 1.9 percent higher at 42.8 petajoules.
Sales by the company's utilities, trading as NGC Gas Companies, rose by 3.5 percent to 18.3 petajoules, while sales by the company to other utilities returned to the 1994 level of 24.5 petajoules after a slight reduction to 24.3 petajoules in 1995.
NOTE - John Keells Holdings is a conglomerate with 55 subsidiaries, of which 12 are listed.
The coupon and conversion price will be decided on August 28.
Japan's police force on Tuesday rapped itself for poor scientific and technical knowledge in investigating the deadly nerve gas attack on Tokyo subways last year.
The National Police Agency's annual white paper for 1996, released on Tuesday, said police lacked expert knowledge when officers started investigations of the March 20, 1995, nerve gas attack on Tokyo subways which killed 11 and left thousands ill.
"It cannot be denied that police were perplexed by the use of the nerve gas sarin," the report said.
Police could not immediately identify the poison gas first developed as a chemical weapon by Nazi Germany in the 1930s.
The report said a series of crimes allegedly committed by doomsday cult Aum Shinri Kyo (Supreme Truth Sect) represented an unprecedented, new type of organised crime.
This type of what police said was new organised crime left a lot for police authorities to consider in reviewing the prevention of organised crime, the report said.
Aum Shinri Kyo leader Shoko Asahara is currently on trial for a total of 17 criminal cases, including two sets of murder charges for the gas attacks. He could be sentenced to death by hanging.
The 15 other charges range from ordering the execution of rebellious followers to illegal manufacturing of drugs and weapons.
Asahara was also charged with allegedly ordering cult members to spread sarin gas in the city of Matsumoto, 150 km (90 miles) northwest of Tokyo, in June 1994, killing seven people and injuring 600.
The report noted how Yoshiyuki Kono, a victim in the Matsumoto sarin case, was wrongly identified as a prime suspect and that police formally apologised to him.
The white paper also noted that the current police system based on provinces was a hindrance to investigating nationwide crimes.
The report said the Tokyo Metropolitan Police was unable to search the cult's complex in Yamanashi Prefecture, adjacent to the capital, before the Tokyo subway gas attack because of police laws which have prevented investigations crossing prefectural borders.
The white paper suggested that Japan should consider introducing wider legislation to combat organised crime similar to laws in Europe and the United States which allow authorities to seize unlawfully earned money and to pay rewards for information in criminal investigations.
Manila's armed forces chief General Arturo Enrile said on Tuesday that Singapore had agreed to help modernise the Philippine army by selling it weapons and helping upgrade its armour.
Enrile told reporters that defence ties, which nearly broke down in the furore over the March 1995 hanging in Singapore of Filipina maid Flor Contemplacion for double murder, are now "better than before".
"We are looking at Singapore as one of our sources for our equipment and weapon systems in connection with the modernisation of the armed forces," he said.
Enrile said he sought Singapore's assistance when he met Prime Minister Goh Chok Tong and Defence Minister Tony Tan on Monday. He arrived on Saturday after visiting Indonesia and was scheduled to head for Malaysia later on Tuesday.
Enrile said military ties between the two countries were expanding rapidly. A naval exercise has been inaugurated this year along with the annual exercise between the two armies.
"It is not far-fetched that some time in the future, we will be conducting joint exercises involving all services," he said.
Some of the armaments Manila would be interested in buying were automatic grenade launchers which Singapore was already producing and exporting, Enrile said.
The Philippines was also seeking technical support to upgrade its tanks and armoured cars and had proposed the creation of joint venture companies for the manufacture of items such as automatic rifles and armoured personnel carriers.
Manila has recently embarked on the first phase of a programme to overhaul its armed forces, reducing its size and replacing obsolete equipment in the navy and air force.
The Philippines will spend 50 billion pesos (US$1.9 billion) in the first five years of the modernisation programme running from 1996 to 2000, Enrile said.
The House of Representatives in Manila has already approved a budget of 330 billion pesos over 15 years to modernise the military. The sum is being reviewed by the Senate.
Some of the money will go into replacing obsolete planes such as the F-5, first commissioned in the mid-1960s and which pales in comparison to the U.S.-made F-16 fighter-bombers in the arsenals of Indonesia, Thailand and Singapore.
Another target for overhaul and replacement would be most of the World War Two-vintage ships handed to Manila by Washington, which are older than the men serving on them.
NYMEX electricity futures ended mostly lower Tuesday, although the California-Oregon Border (COB) front months finished higher in a late rally that traders said was difficult to account for.
The futures may have been following physicals prices, which firmed in the Northwest and fell in the Southwest, in part due to lower natural gas prices, industry sources said.
September COB finished up 30 cents at $17.90 after trading as low as $17.55 per megawatt hour (MWh), while October closed 18 cents higher at $15.83 after trade as low as $15.65.
Remaining COB deferreds, with the exception of June, 1997 closed 15-55 cents lower. Futures prices for the winter months have been decreasing over the past week.
"People trading the back months are probably looking at what is happening to the front months, which rallied for two to three weeks and now are coming off pretty hard," said one New York-based futures broker.
September Palo Verde (PV) ended down 30 cents at $20.90, while October PV ended down 30 cents at $16.10.
Remaining PV deferreds ended down 15-70 cents.
NYMEX said an estimated total of 316 COB contracts traded, while an estimated 42 PV contracts traded.
Slovak short-term money market rates were seen easing toward 10 percent from current 12-13.2 percent, potentially taking the shine off crown securities and deposits, dealers said.
"The (stronger) crown boosted the central bank foreign exchange reserves, and eventually market liquidity. High deposit rates are unjustified and we expect their decline," said Dalibor Cernicka, a Istrobanka dealer.
Added Robert Hakszer, a head of dealing at Slovenska Sporitelna: "In the longer-term, rates could slowly ease to 10-12 percent, spoiling some of the crown's attraction."
Slovak interbank money market rates eased to a bid range of 12.0-13.2 percent on Tuesday amid a liquidity surplus, with the market eyeing the results of a state bond auction, as well as a possible central bank repo rate cut.
In July, the National Bank of Slovakia (NBS) boosted the interbank interest rates to about 14 percent, in a move to curtail banks short-term lending.
The NBS liquidity bill repurchase (repo) and reverse repo rates, which, since then, are the key price determining factor on the market, now stand at 8.2 and 7.4 percent respectively.
"Both the repo and reverse repo rate could ease slightly even if the state bond auction on Tuesday is successful," Hakszer said.
The United Arab Emirates foreign currency reserves were steady in July on June's 27.5 billion dirhams, Central Bank figures show.
Heavylift Volgadnepr Airlines said it will be operating three Antonov 124 charter flights between Chateauroux and Ulyanovsk early next month carrying vehicles taking part in the Paris-Moscow-Peking Master rally.
"Three flights are scheduled for September 7 and 8, with approximately 40 jeep-type vehicles, 10 trucks and between 20 and 30 motorcycles being shipped," a Heavylift official told Reuters.
The AN-124 aircraft can carry up to 150 tonnes and the Chateauroux-Ulyanovsk charters will also transport helicopters to be used in the television coverage of the rally and broadcasting equipment, the official added.
The rally will start at the Trocadero -- near the Eiffel Tower in Paris -- where the vehicles and motorcyles in competition will undergo techincal check-ups before travelling down to Chateauroux to take part in a prologue event at the airport, a Chateauroux airport authority official said.
"The rally's organisers were impressed by the uncongested facilities at the airport coupled with the length of the runway, a package which enabled us to beat off competition from the Paris airports, Lyon and Marseille," he said.
Higher tax revenues helped Spain reduce its central government deficit by 18.7 percent in the first seven months of this year.
Economy ministry figures released earlier showed there was a budget surplus of 282 billion peseta in July and the accumulated deficit fell to 1.18 trillion pesetas.
Corporate tax income rose 37.2 percent to 326.6 billion pesetas in July and the accumulated seven month figure was 31.4 percent higher at 596.7 billion.
Personal income tax revenues also rose 6.8 percent in the year to date to 3.71 trillion pesetas.
Total non-financial income was 8.5 percent higher at 9.02 trillion.
Financial costs, that is the debt servicing burden, fell 11.1 percent in the month although the accumulated figure rose 19.9 percent to 1.98 trillion pesetas.
The central government deficit target for the year is 3.4 percent of GDP or some 2.6 trillion pesetas. The social security body and the autonomous regions are expected to add another percentage point to this to take the overall public sector deficit to 4.4 percent.
Morgan Stanley & Co is opening an investment banking and trading office in Boston, The Boston Herald reported on Tuesday.
The group to include about a dozen institutional equity traders and banking professionals, will be located in Boston's downtown area, Morgan Stanley told The Herald.
With its large concentration of mutual fund companies and money managers, Boston is home ot many of Wall Street's major customers and Massachusetts also boasts a roster of high-tech and bio-tech firms.
The new office is expected to open in October, the paper said.
Morgan Stanley officials could not immediately be reached for comment.
Swedish mining, metals and engineering group Trelleborg said on Tuesday it expected profitability to fall in the second half of the year if currency exchange rates and metals prices remained at current levels.
"Assuming currency exchange rates and metals prices now in force, which in the case of copper means a far lower level than in the past ... we expect weaker profit generation in the second half year," Trelleborg said in its first half profit statement.
The group posted a profit after financial net of 657 million crowns ($99 million) for the first half of 1996, a sharp drop from the 954 million crowns reported for the same 1995 period.
The comparison with the first half of 1995 was rendered less flattering by a positive restructuring item of 102 million crowns taken in the second quarter of 1995.
Operating income for the period dipped to 10.62 billion crowns from 11.10 billion for the comparative period.
This, Trelleborg said, was the result of a weaker economic scenario on its main markets.
"The weaker economy, particularly on European markets, has led to weaker prices and lower volumes," it said.
The mining and metals unit reported virtually unchanged sales for the period at 4.28 billion crowns, but operating profits dipped to 296 million crowns from 317 million, a fall Trelleborg said was due to the weaker economy.
However, hedging had rendered the business area virtually immune to disadvantageous moves in currencies and metals prices over the period, it said.
The operating profit of Trelleborg's distribution division, the second largest in the group, was more than halved to 141 million crowns.
Israel snatched four Lebanese residents from southern Lebanon earlier this year and held them in Israel, a ruling by Israel's High Court showed on Tuesday.
Israel's Yedioth Ahronoth newspaper said the four apparently had earlier abducted another Lebanese man who had worked for Israel's Mossad secret service and "handed him to the enemy."
The news of the arrest was disclosed after the High Court, in a July ruling, rejected the unnamed individuals' appeal against their detention in Israel.
"The four appellants are residents of Lebanon. They were arrested on February 22, 1996, by Israeli security forces in Lebanon's territory, the security zone, and were brought on March 17, 1996, to the territory of the State of Israel," said the ruling obtained by Reuters on Tuesday.
Israel carved out a 15-km (nine mile) wide occupation zone in south Lebanon in 1985 when it withdrew the bulk of its 1982 Lebanon invasion force. The zone is policed by Israel's surrogate South Lebanon Army militia (SLA).
The court made only a glancing reference to why the four were detained by Israel, saying: "From information brought before the minister (then prime minister Shimon Peres) and to the court it arose that the four appellants took part, each in his own way, in kidnapping a Lebanese citizen."
It gave no further details.
The court upheld the detention of the four by administrative order for six months. The order, issued by Peres, who at the time was also defence minister, is valid until September 16.
Yedioth said four days after Israel captured the four, the pro-Syrian Lebanese newspaper as-Safir said that intelligence personnel of the Lebanese army kidnapped a Mossad agent named Ahmed Halek from south Lebanon and took him to Beirut.
Yedioth quoted as-Safir saying Halek had detonated a car bomb at a pro-Iranian Hizbollah group stronghold in Beirut in December that killed four people. It said he was sentenced to death by a Lebanese court martial.
The following fiscal measures have been announced or widely leaked ahead of Tuesday's Australian budget. Savings are shown where they are known or can be estimated.
-- Increase in students' university charges from calendar 1997 and a new, three-tiered scheme and faster repayments schedule: A$23 million saved in 1996/97 rising to A$371 million in 1998/99.
--Increased fees for immigration applicants.
--Private health insurance incentives.
--Crackdown on tax avoidance.
--Pledge to honour former Labor government's commitment to subsidise retirement savings, or superannuation, for low income earners.
--Family tax breaks to cost A$1.08 billion in 1997/98, their first full year of operation.
--Temporarily reduced funding for the states: a total A$1.6 billion over three years, incuding A$600 million in general funding and A$300 million from specific grants.
--Defence administration: A$625 million a year saved.
--Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander Commission: total cuts of almost A$400 million over four years, starting with A$78 million cut in 1996/97.
--Higher education spending: about A$250 million a year once fully implemented in 1998/99.
--Public broadcaster Australian Broadcasting Corporation funding: A$65 million to $77 million saved in 1996/97.
--Public service staffing levels cut by up to 30,000 over two years: Up to A$2 billion a year would be saved if running costs fell in proportion to the workforce.
--Department of Foreign Affairs and Trade: about A$125 million a year saved.
--Research and development tax breaks scrapped and replaced by grants, saving about A$1 billion over four years.
--Labour market programmes ("Working Nation") employment programmes: about A$1.8 billion saved over four years.
--Education spending for migrant language classes cut.
--Cuts to subsidies for medicines, the pharmaceutical benefits scheme: about A$400 million a year saved.
--Superannuation tax breaks for high income earners to be dropped.
Finnish food and chemicals group Raision Tehtaat Oy said in a statement on Tuesday its net sales target in Poland this year was 300 million markka.
"The (Polish) company's managing director Seppo Heinio says that this year's objective is a turnover of FIM 300 million," Raisio said.
"Raisio has achieved a 12 percent share of the fast-growing Polish margarine market within the space of a few years," it said. It said the market was growing about five percent a year.
Raisio said its Polish subsidiary  Raisio Polska Foods had 190 employees of which 120 work in production.
It said the C.Olsen Foods margarine factory bought at the end of last year was "modern and in very good condition".
The Commonwealth Bank of Australia (CBA) said on Wednesday it expected earnings to be flat in the year to June 30, 1997 but that earnings per share should improve as a result of the completion of a share buy-back.
"The bank expects that the payout ratio of dividends to earnings per share will be maintained in 1996/97, provided that there are no significant changes to the bank's business activities," the bank said in a statement accompanying its 1995/96 results.
Reports on Tuesday that Britain plans to play it tough in "open skies" talks with the United States come as the European Commission readies its guns for a competition probe into six transatlantic aviation alliances.
Tuesday's Financial Times quoted British government officials as planning to wring concessions from Washington before any wider opening of access to the busy runways of London's Heathrow airport.
A successful outcome to the ongoing and increasingly tetchy open skies talks is crucial to the fate of British Airways' planned alliance with American Airlines. Washington says it will block the deal without increased Heathrow access for American carriers.
While approval for the BA/American alliance hinges principally on decisions by the U.S. Justice Department and Britain's Office of Fair Trading, the Commission has muscled in on policing a deal it sees as a threat to its competition powers within the European Union.
The planned alliance would capture 24 percent of the total Europe to U.S. market, British Airway's chief executive Robert Ayling said in July.
The sheer size of the plan made it impossible for the Commission to hold off on a move it had earlier considered but rejected for United Airlines's tie-up with Lufthansa.
The probe is to cover the competition effects of BA/American plans along with existing deals involving Lufthansa and United, Scandinavian Airlines Systems and United, and those between Delta Air Lines and SwissAir, Belgium's Sabena and Austrian Airlines.
One Brussels-based aviation expert, while convinced of the Commission's legal ground, questioned its capacity to unravel the complexities of all the different alliances, agreements for which usually run to hundreds of pages of dense legal text.
"Certainly the Commission has the legal power to act. It used exactly these instruments in 1986 when it sent competition infringement letters to 10 Community airlines," the expert told Reuters recently.
"What I wonder at is whether the Commission has the resources to assess the competition effects of code-sharing agreements or even to calculate their market share impact," the expert said.
The scale of the Commission's task was evident from the conclusions of a recent report it commissioned into the impact of code-share deals, the practice by which collaborating airlines agree to use the same flight codes on respective services for a route in order to attract feeder traffic passengers to use an apparently seamless service.
"Potential competition problems might arise (from code-shares) as the possibilities for non code-sharing carriers to compete on a global network scale are limited," said the report, a copy of which was seen by Reuters.
The rouble firmed on Tuesday ahead of Wednesday's Treasury bill auctions and dealers said a squeeze for roubles was also due to large dollar sales by the central bank last Friday.
"The dollar dipped ahead of T-bill auctions and high overnight rates are a confirmation of that," Konversbank dealer Igor Mamkov said. Rouble rates were unlikely to firm further today in otherwise calm trading, he said.
On Wednesday the central bank is auctioning 7.5 trillion roubles of six-month paper and four trillion roubles of three-month bills.
Overnight rouble credits yielded 50-70 percent compared with Monday's late 20-25 percent.
Roubles for today settlement were quoted at 5,297-5,300 per dollar, the same as in early trading, after 5,302-04 late on Monday. Tomorrow roubles edged up to 5,300-03 per dollar from yesterday's late 5,304-06.
The central bank said it had set 5,290/5,320 as its bid and offer rates against the dollar on Tuesday.
"Banks want to catch the last wagon of the last train, as they expect a fall in T-bill yields. Even banks who usually offer funds are bidding today," Inkombank chief dealer Vladimir Kudryavtsev said.
He added the rouble shortage also reflected heavy dolalr buying by commercial banks from the central bank on Friday.
"Banks bought dollars from the central bank for tomorrow settlement and the roubles left the market yesterday, so the rouble deficit can be felt now, but it is not total," he said.
Some dealers said the central bank had sold up to $200 million on Friday.
No comment from the central bank was immediately available.
Mass privatisation NFI units closed at 92 zlotys in Warsaw bourse continuous trade, the same price as their fixing in the regular bourse session.
NFI units on Monday were 1.1 percent higher at 93 zlotys at both the regular bourse session and in continuous trade.
None of the five stocks in the continuous system -- BIG, BPH, Debica, Elektrim and Rolimpex -- traded on Tuesday.
Business executives from Indonesia and Netherlands arrived in Islamabad on Tuesday to evaluate Pakistan Telecommunication Company Ltd (PTCL), a Privatisation Commission consultant said.
Zubair Ejaz told Reuters that Setiawan Djody, chairman of Setdco group of Indonesia, and J.B. Volbeda, president of PTT Telecom Netherlands, would make an assessment of PTCL, which is being privatised.
He said the executives would meet officials of the government, the Privatisation Commission and PTCL during their three-day stay.
Pakistan, which wants to sell a 26 percent stake and transfer management control of PTCL to a strategic investor, has not yet announced a date for the sale.
ImmuDyne Inc said on Tuesday that university studies have shown that the use of its products increased survival rates in shrimp challenged by the Taura virus which has been devastating the farmed shrimp industry.
The products in question are the company's existing aquaculture products and two new products in the ImmuStim family of products..
The company said sales from these products of $5 million are expected in the first year from distributors primarily in Latin America. Contacts have been made with distributors in Asia, and sales to the Asian market could increase overall sales substantially, the company said.
ImmuDyne is a biotech company with technologies for immune enhancement products.
Japan is likely to raise taxes on domestic liquor next year in a bid to appease foreign criticism that its tax system discriminates against imported spirits, analysts and experts say.
A World Trade Organisation panel has already ruled that Japan treats imported spirits such as whiskey and brandy unfairly compared with a Japanese spirit known as shochu.
Analysts say the decision is likely to be upheld when the world trade body makes a final ruling later this year, and if so, Japan will face strong pressure to raise shochu taxes.
"It's highly possible that taxes will be raised from next April. Within the framework of free trade, many industrialised countries would obviously see it as unfair that 'shochu' taxes are lower compared to other distilled products," said Tokushi Yamazaki, an analyst at Daiwa Institute of Research Ltd.
Last month's ruling by the WTO panel followed a complaint by the European Union, backed by Canada and the United States, that Japanese taxes on imported liquor are disproportionately high compared with locally produced spirits. Japan appealed to the WTO on August 8 to reconsider the findings and a final ruling should be made around November.
However, analysts and experts said the ruling is likely to stand and that Tokyo will face a 15-month deadline to make changes in its tax system.
The EU says that per degree of alcohol, Japan taxes imported spirits at rates up to six times of those on shochu.
But Tokyo has argued that shochu -- a liquor brewed from barley and drunk with juice or other mixers -- is basically for poorer people, while whiskey and other imported spirits are a luxury tipple for more affluent consumers.
For example, a 700 millilitre bottle of imported whiskey can cost 5,000 yen ($46) or more in Japan, while a bottle of shochu of about the same size costs around 850 yen ($7).
Japan can either raise taxes on shochu as it did in 1989 and 1994 or reduce taxes on imported spirits. The EU has said previous reforms narrowed the gap, but not to an extent which would put foreign and domestic products on an equal footing.
Raising taxes on shochu appears to be the most likely course of action. "If we take into account our tight fiscal condition, cutting taxes is not a likely option," a Finance Ministry official told Reuters. "Nothing has been decided yet, but liquor taxes are likely to be discussed during the annual review of the country's tax system by the end of December."
Tax experts see shochu tax hikes as inevitable, but any tax increase would be minimal as the move would meet staunch opposition from politicians supported by local distilleries ahead of general elections expected as early as October.
"We've been telling the government again and again that shochu and whiskey are not substitutable. We're backing the government all the way in its WTO appeal," said Teikichi Uchida of the Japan Sake Brewers Association.
Industry sources said if shochu taxes were brought into line with whiskey taxes, the retail prices of shochu would have to go up by around 800 yen ($7) a bottle, hurting domestic producers.
The WTO findings can also interpreted to mean that shochu taxes would only have to be raised to the equivalent of vodka taxes, which are lower than whiskey taxes, analysts said.
The WTO panel report classified spirits, including whiskey, brandy, rum and gin, as being "directly competitive or substitutable" with Japanese shochu. Vodka was classified as a "like" or "highly similar" product to shochu.
Taxes for one type of shochu now stand at 102,100 yen ($944) per kilolitre. Average whiskey taxes stand at 982,300 yen ($9,092) and those on other spirits such as vodka stand at 367,300 yen ($3,398) per kilolitre.
This trend will result in substantially higher sales for all of fiscal 1997 as well, the company said.
It said it still expects earnings per share for fiscal 1997 to be $1.30 to $1.50, up from $1.16 in fiscal 1996.
In the earlier quarters of fiscal 1997, the company said, it expects earnings per share to be in the general range of, or possibly lower than, the year-earlier quarters until its Shafter, Calif., plant installs some new equipment and gets the benefit of having all of its higher-value products in its manufacturing schedule.
Start-up of the new nonwoven fiberglass mat production facility at Ennis is going well but the facility will be a drag on earnings during the early part of the fiscal year until output and sales are above the break-even point, the company said.
Bamerindus, Brazil's fourth-largest private bank, released the following figures for 1996's first half.
Note: All the figures, which released Tuesday afternoon to Brazil's stock exchanges, are in Brazilian reais.
Further information was to vbe released at a press conference later Tuesday afternoon.
The Russian Central Bank said it had set 5290/5320 roubles per dollar as its bid and offer rates for its operations on the currency market on Tuesday.
The official rate for Wednesday will be 5305.
On Monday the bid/offer rates were 5287/5317, with the official dollar rate 5302 from Tuesday.
The Central Bank announces daily bid/offer dollar/rouble rates for its currency operations. The midpoint of these rates is the official dollar/rouble rate for the following day.
The daily corridor for the rouble on the interbank market is 5137/5737 after 5134/5734.
Private Brazilian bank Bamerindus is likely to post a 20 million real net profit in the first six months of the year, O Globo newspaper said.
Bamerindus is due to send its first half results to Brazil's Securities and Exchange Commission (CVM) today and to publish the balance sheet Wednesday.
Last month, Bamerindus Group unveiled a restructuring plan under which Bamerindus' profitable insurance company was absorbed by the bank, while its past due loans, worth 680 million reais, were transferred to the group's holding company.
Despite the positive results, the Central Bank will require an injection of at least 1.0 billion reais in the bank to solve Bamerindus' liquidity troubles, O Globo said.
Bamerindus, Brazil's fourth-largest private bank, has been in recent months plagued by rumors of liquidity problems and speculation that the bank would be sold.
Veja also said private banks Bradesco, Banco Itau and Banco Safra would be studying the purchase of the bank.
Bamerindus press officials, however, denied any talks with other financial institutions to transfer the control of the bank.
Note: the figures were unaudited.
Police in Northern Ireland said on Tuesday they would prevent Protestants from marching through a Catholic area of Belfast for fear that it could spark off fresh sectarian violence in the troubled city.
Police said that Sunday's planned march by the Royal Black Preceptory order, a fiercely pro-British organisation, would not be allowed to pass through the staunchly pro-Irish nationalist lower Ormeau Road area of Belfast.
Catholics feel threatened and insulted by Protestant marchers, many commemorating historical military victories over Catholic forces.
Protestants who want the province to remain British regard marches as an essential expression of their loyalty to the crown. Police attempts to block a Protestant parade in July provoked the worst riots seen in the province for years.
A tense weekend of demonstrations two weeks ago ended peacefully when a Protestant march was allowed to pass through a largely Catholic village after a lengthy stand-off.
Commentators from both sides of the divide said the way in which the incident was handled had revived hopes for multi-party negotiations on the future of the province which resume in September.
Russia is likely to harvest 77 million tonnes of grain this year, and any imports will be matched by exports, Deputy Prime Minister Alexander Zaveryukha said on Tuesday.
Zaveryukha did not give export or import figures, but Interfax news agency quoted him last week as predicting that grain exports could be four-five million tonnes this year and imports would be about the same.
On Tuesday Zaveryukha said Russia was negotiating exports of grain to Turkmenistan, Azerbaijan and Uzbekistan.
Cross-country rail freight charges are very high in Russia, making imports to the Far East a cheap alternative to transporting Russian grain from the west of the country.
Last year's drought-hit harvest was 63.4 million tonnes.
Shares in Austria's largest industrial group OMV AG lost ground in Vienna on Tuesday after it reported earnings for the first six months of the year, which came in below bullish analysts' expectations.
AT 0830 GMT, the oil and chemicals group was down 1.44 percent, or 14.9 schillings to 1,024 and was by far Vienna's most active stock on turnover of more than 32,000 lots.
"There were several Austrian and international brokers who predicted OMV pre-tax profits of over two billion schillings," said one trader.
OMV reported a pre-tax profit of 1.56 billion schillings for the first half.
"What you're seeing now is short-term disappointment as investors were too focused on the analysts' incorrect predictions of really good results," he said, adding "it's a buy recommendation at this level."
Australia plans to start a space research programme to develop and launch satellites, Science andd Technology minister, Peter McGauran, said on Tuesday.
"Despite the stringent budget conditions faced by the Howard government, we have been able to establish a space research programme that is practical and will meet Australia's specific needs," McGauran said in a statement with the 1996/97 budget.
The first small satellite would be orbited during Australia's centenary of of Federation in 2001, he said.
He did not state a specific allocation for the programme.
State oil monopoly Petrobras has discovered a new gas field with potential production of up to 400,000 cubic meters per day, the company said in a statement.
The well is situated in the Espirito Santo basin and effectively doubles the state's gas reserves. Preliminary indications are the new reserve could total around five billion cubic meters, it added.
Work will begin in a few days on another possible site five kilometers north of the latest discovery, Petrobras said.
A dull day in the dry cargo freight market produced conflicting signals of future trends, broking sources said.
Conditions for Capers were described by brokers as steady to firm but for Panamaxes a mixture of stronger and weaker rates were seen.
The BFI was one point higher at 1,109 points and the BIFFEX was very thinly traded.
Unconfirmed reports were of Panamaxes fixtures for period timecharter, the 1981-built Alfios 63,408 dwt for two years to Scandinavian charterers, possibly Guinomar, at about $8,500 daily, and Despina 65,644 dwt passing Gibraltar August 22 for short period at under $9,000 daily.
Handy-size levels showed little evidence of recovery.
GRAIN--Egyptian chartering activity continued in the Atlantic.
ENC were said to have fixed a ten-year old Panamax delivery Continent for a trip via the  St Lawrence to Egypt at $6,800 daily. Although short business this represents an improvement on rates around $7,500 daily delivery loading port plus $100,000 bonus. K Line were linked with the fixture on subjects of Antonis I.
Angelicoussis 69,346 dwt delivery US Gulf mid-September trip Far East at a steady $12,000 daily plus $185,000 bonus, but the subjects are believed to be shaky.
From east coast South America Continental quoted 45,000 tonnes 55' Brazil to the Philippines for August/September and upto 40,000 tonnes 55' Rio Grande/China for September 5/20.
Kavo Midia 64,345 dwt was said to have fixed Nidera for grain busines to the Far East, but no details were released.
Iana fixed a handy-size from the Plate and Brazil to the Continent on private terms, and Continental fixed 25,000 wheat on subjects from Southampton to Chittagong for prompt loading at only $29.00.
COAL/ORE/FERTILISERS--Japanese charterers such as Mosk, Nitetsu and Navix quoted a number of new enquiries for Panamaxes for coal from Australia or Kalimantan to Japan, but the only fixture reported in these trades was Rubin Pioneer 69,235 dwt delivery Gladstone September 10/20 trip Japan at a weak $7,500 daily plus $95,000 bonus.
Carboex quoted a fresh enquiry for a prompt shipment of 65,000/10 coal New Orleans/Tarragona. A modern 64,000 dwt Panamax was fixed from the Continent for an ore trip via Norway back to the Continent at close to $8,250 daily.
HANDY-SIZES--CSAV booked LT Pragati 37,489 dwt delivery prompt Japan for three-five months business via west coast South America at $7,200, having a week previously taken Alcinoe 34,000 dwt for similar business at only $6,500 daily.
Alcestis 43,383 dwt fixed a scrap cargo from California to Malaysia on private terms, but brokers reckoned the rate was low.
Clan Line took George Lyras 35,730 dwt, with a capacity of 908 teu, delivery Hongkong for an east coast South America round at $8,500 daily.
-- Greek telecommunications organisation OTE is looking for a partner to develop the DCS 1800 mobile telephony system. The partner will have a 25 percent stake in the new company. Interested parties can apply by September 16.
-- It is a matter of days before the government announces its decision about calling early elections or not. The business community wants "clear solutions"
- Police search headquarters of reform communist Party of Democratic Socialism (PDS) in probe into assets hidden by East Germany's hardline regime.
- Prosecutors suspect German firms of providing equipment for poison gas factory in Libya.
- Finance Minister of Saxony state sees great opportunity to reform tax system.
- Liberal Free Democrats want further measures to reduce financial burden on companies.
- Wage negotiations for retail sector in North Rhine-Westphalia state make no progress.
- Main opposition Social Democrats (SPD) say comprehensive tax reform could begin in 1998.
- Mechanical engineering sector increases production from foreign bases.
- Insurance companies Berlin-Koelnische Versicherungsgruppe and Gothaer Gruppe plan merger.
- Mannesmann says its 1996 full-year results will be a slight improvement on its 1995 figures.
- Two managers from German firms in investigative custody as part of probe into export of equipment for Libyan poison gas factory.
- FDP says proposal by Bavarian finance minister to tax life insurance pay-outs is worth considering.
- Company health insurance funds hope to keep contributions stable until at least middle of 1997.
- Retailers vow to fight against plans to allow post offices to sell a wider range of goods.
- Government announces plans to introduce performance-related pay for some academics.
- FDP repeats demands for early tax reform despite criticism from Chancellor Helmut Kohl.
- Federation of German Wholesalers and Exporters (BGA) disagrees with Chambers of Commerce over export performance of German companies. The BGA says German firms are losing ground.
- Life Insurance firms protest speak out against suggestions that their pay-outs to customers should be taxed.
Chechen rebel spokesman Movladi Udugov said on Tuesday Russian troops blew up a bridge by which refugees were trying to flee the capital Grozny, killing about 100 civilians, but Russian officials denied the allegation.
Interfax news agency quoted the federal forces' prosecutor's office in Chechnya as saying it knew nothing of the alleged attack. "If this happened, we would definitely have been told," it quoted a spokesman as saying.
Udugov accused troops of blowing up the bridge and then shooting at civilians. "Today around 3.30 p.m. (1130 GMT) several hundred refugees were crossing a bridge near the Kirova settlement towards the village of Alkhan-Yurt," he told Reuters by telephone.
"When they were crossing the bridge Russian servicemen blew it up. Around 100 refugees, mainly women and children, died.
"Some of the refugees who managed to cross the bridge were seized by the Russian servicemen and shot dead on the spot. Some 6,000 refugees were forced to flee back to Grozny," he added.
There was no way to check the report independently, and Interfax said the military administration in Chechnya did not confirm it. Alkhan-Yurt is a few km (miles) southwest of Grozny.
Udugov said the Chechen leadership had issued a statement blaming the acting head of troops in Chechnya, Konstantin Pulikovsky.
"It said General Pulikovsky will carry personal responsibility for this before the whole Chechen people no matter how long it takes," he said.
"It also appealed to the so-called international community which propagates human rights to find some way to react to this bloody crime and reject this policy of double standards."
Reports on Tuesday that Britain plans to play it tough in "open skies" talks with the United States come as the European Commission readies its guns for a competition probe into six transatlantic aviation alliances.
Tuesday's Financial Times quoted British government officials as planning to wring concessions from Washington before any wider opening of access to the busy runways of London's Heathrow airport.
A successful outcome to the ongoing and increasingly tetchy open skies talks is crucial to the fate of British Airways' planned alliance with American Airlines. Washington says it will block the deal without increased Heathrow access for American carriers.
While approval for the BA/American alliance hinges principally on decisions by the U.S. Justice Department and Britain's Office of Fair Trading, the Commission has muscled in on policing a deal it sees as a threat to its competition powers within the European Union.
The planned alliance would capture 24 percent of the total Europe to U.S. market, British Airway's chief executive Robert Ayling said in July.
The sheer size of the plan made it impossible for the Commission to hold off on a move it had earlier considered but rejected for United Airlines's tie-up with Lufthansa.
The probe is to cover the competition effects of BA/American plans along with existing deals involving Lufthansa and United, Scandinavian Airlines Systems and United, and those between Delta Air Linesand SwissAir, Belgium's Sabena and Austrian Airlines.
One Brussels-based aviation expert, while convinced of the Commission's legal ground, questioned its capacity to unravel the complexities of all the different alliances, agreements for which usually run to hundreds of pages of dense legal text.
"Certainly the Commission has the legal power to act. It used exactly these instruments in 1986 when it sent competition infringement letters to 10 Community airlines," the expert told Reuters recently.
"What I wonder at is whether the Commission has the resources to assess the competition effects of code-sharing agreements or even to calculate their market share impact," the expert said.
The scale of the Commission's task was evident from the conclusions of a recent report it commissioned into the impact of code-share deals, the practice by which collaborating airlines agree to use the same flight codes on respective services for a route in order to attract feeder traffic passengers to use an apparently seamless service.
"Potential competition problems might arise (from code-shares) as the possibilities for non code-sharing carriers to compete on a global network scale are limited," said the report, a copy of which was seen by Reuters.
"Insufficient information can currently be collected in order to assess the impact of code-sharing on fare levels on individual airport pairs (or) to determine the effect of joining frequent flyer programmes as part of the code-sharing agreement," the report said.
PepsiCo Inc products will disappear from the Venezuelan market, in which it had an 80 percent market share until Friday, by the end of the week due to a suprise move by Venezuela's main bottler and Coca-Cola Co , Pepsi officials said late Monday.
"There are about two or three days (stock) left...Technically we are out of Venezuela," Pepsi's Latin American President Gustavo Berejam told a news conference.
Pepsi's Venezuelan franchise for the last 47 years was held by the Cisneros family, a leading business group. But the Cisneros group announced Friday it had signed a joint venture with Coke to bottle Coke and Hit trademark products at its 18 plants.
Pepsi, which said it was caught off guard by the development, said the Cisneros are within their rights to break the contract and will incur penalties established in it.
But Pepsi officials have said they will challenge the cessation of the contract, which extended to 2003.
Livestock analysts estimate Tuesday's hog slaughter from 338,000 to 344,000 head versus 343,000 a week ago and 346,000 a year ago.
Cattle slaughter estimates ranged from 130,000 to 132,000 head versus 133,000 a week ago and 126,000 a year ago.
The Chicago Board of Trade reported the following stocks of oats in Minneapolis, deliverable against CBOT futures. (in 000's bu).
NOTE - Danto Corp is a manufacturer of different types of tiles.
Cargo traffic at Denver International Airport increased by 3.9 percent in the first half of 1996, with the strongest growth reported by passenger airlines.
The airport authority said intregrated freight carriers carried 52.2 percent of all freight traffic at the airport versus 47.7 percent for passenger airlines.
The all-cargo airlines - including giants Federal Express, United Parcel Service and Consolidated Freightways' Emery Worldwide unit - boosted their cargo volume by 2.6 percent to 208.8 million pounds.
In contrast, the passenger carriers raised their cargo volume by 19.1 million tonnes to 176.9 million, an increase of 10.9 percent, the authority said.
United Airlines which maintains a major hub at Denver's year-old, $4-billion airport, accounted for 76 percent of the cargo moved by passenger airlines and 38.3 percent of all cargo at the airport.
Next among the passenger airlines was Delta Airlines Inc DAL.N, with just 2.1 percent of total freight traffic.
Among the all-cargo airlines, FedEx ranked first, with 20.2 percent of total Denver freight traffic, followed by UPS with 14.3 percent.
The People's Construction Bank of China has pledged to grant 2.0 billion yuan in loans to six companies in the northwestern region of Xinjiang, the Financial News said on Tuesday.
The loans would be given to Bayi Iron and Steel, Urumqi Petrochemical, North Xinjiang Railway and three other large-scale enterprises, the newspaper said.
The companies would use the loans to develop their basic infrastructure and carry out technical renovation, it said.
More than 802 million yuan of the loans would be given out by the end of 1996, the newspaper said. It gave no further details.
India told the Conference on Disarmament on Tuesday that it could still not accept a draft nuclear text ban treaty, preventing its formal adoption in Geneva after more than two years of negotiations.
At a meeting called to examine the final report on negotiations for a Comprehensive Test Ban Treaty (CTBT), Indian ambassador Arundhati Ghose was fiercely critical of a text that she said was unbalanced and violated India's sovereignty.
She confirmed that India, which blocked the treaty last week, would veto its transmission to the U.N. General Assembly in New York for signature at the end of next month.
"Our opposition to that text continues," Ghose told the conference. "We would not, therefore, agree to it being forwarded to the UNGA in any form by this conference."
Her remarks were greeted with anger by India's neighbour and long-time foe Pakistan. "Today, the mask of the smiling Buddha has been torn off, revealing the face of the goddess of war," Pakistani ambassador Munir Akram told the conference.
"Pakistan would regret any procedure that would circumvent the Conference on Disarmament, the single multilateral disarmament negotiating forum," he added.
Yet supporters of the treaty, which include all five declared nuclear powers, hope to bypass India's veto in Geneva and have the treaty signed anyway at the General Assembly.
The Conference on Disarmament, or CD, takes all decisions by consensus of its 61 member states. But if the treaty text were presented to the General Assembly in the form of a co-sponsored resolution, it would need only a simple majority of the 185 member states to be adopted -- although opponents of the treaty could also propose amendments to it.
It was not clear whether Ghose's remark that the treaty could not be forwarded to New York "in any form" meant the CD would not be able even to transmit the negotiating report to the General Assembly.
That report clearly says there is no consensus on the text, but Western diplomats said that since it refers to the text it would be procedurally easier to introduce the treaty in New York if the report was forwarded.
If not, a co-sponsored resolution could be more difficult to introduce if the treaty were still to be open for signature from the end of September.
India's main problem with the treaty is that it does not commit the five declared nuclear powers -- the United States, Russia, China, Britain and France -- to a timetable for full nuclear disarmament, and instead encourages the divide between nuclear "haves" and "have nots".
After rejecting the treaty on those grounds, New Delhi was further angered when the draft text demanded that India was among those that signed up to the treaty before it could enter into force.
India, along with Pakistan and Israel, is one of three "nuclear threshold states" that have the capability to swiftly build nuclear weapons. New Delhi exploded a nuclear device in 1974, but has not undertaken any nuclear tests since then.
Ghose told the CD that New Delhi had led the call for a test ban treaty as far back as 1954, but the Geneva negotiations had ignored their mandate to negotiate a universal, balanced test ban.
She was particularly critical of the text's clause on entry-into-force, saying: "It is unprecedented in multilateral negotiations and international law that any sovereign country should be denied its right of voluntary consent on adherence to an international treaty."
Suleiman Khadzhimuradov, a middle-aged Chechen fighter, didn't have the thousands of dollars he needed for an anti-aircraft weapon. So with some enterprise and creativity, he made his own.
The long silver rocket he lugs around over his shoulder, several inches (cm) taller than he is, was actually salvaged from a downed Russian "crocodile" attack helicopter.
The choppers normally carry several of the deadly charges, which have menaced the guerrillas and killed countless civilians in the 20-month war between Russian troops and the separatists, battling to carve out an independent homeland.
Suleiman, typical of rebel resourcefulness and cunning in the face of the massive firepower of the Russian army, has now aimed the gun the other way.
"When a helicopter is coming in at low altitude it's not so difficult to bring it down with one of these," he says, wearing a white Moslem cap.
"Each time we can shoot one we get a chance to salvage more of them. They can easily take out a tank too," he says.
Suleiman has added a handmade wooden handle to the bottom of the rocket to hold it in position while firing. Not made to be fired by hand, the flame from the blast can incinerate its user.
"You have to wear this or you can be burned up instantly," he says, showing a thick rubber mask with flameproof material on the outside.
The rebels claim to have shot down at least nine Russian helicopters since they launched a massive assault on the capital Grozny two weeks ago. They still control almost all of the city.
Suleiman says that several helicopters have been brought down with the help of rockets like his.
The gutsy tactics help explain the ineffectiveness of the Russian army throughout the conflict, despite having unlimited air power, thousands of pieces of armour, and a manpower advantage of perhaps 10 to one against the rebels.
The Chechens have no air force, perhaps a couple of dozen tanks and other heavy armour and a few artillery pieces. Most rely on simple Kalashnikov rifles or grenade launchers, while some are lucky enough to carry ageing sub-machine guns.
The rockets are just part of an array of makeshift weapons and improvised strategies which have strengthened their arsenal.
Some rebels say they unscrew the nosecones of the shells on their grenade launchers and pour in powdered red pepper.
"If the shrapnel doesn't get them then the pepper stings their eyes and blinds them temporarily," said Abrel, another fighter.
Others stuff the back of the launchers with tightly wound cotton material. The effect of the trapped gases works like a turbocharger, making the shell fly further, but the launcher can also blow up in the hands of the user.
Another story is how late rebel leader Dzhokhar Dudayev repeatedly pulled dummy surface-to-air missiles through parades in Grozny, thus tricking the Russians into overestimating his firepower.
Suspected Kurdistan Workers Party (PKK) rebels have killed three civilians in an attack in central Turkey, police said on Tuesday.
Assailants opened fire on two cars on a lonely road in the central province of Sivas on Monday night, killing two women and a two-year-old child, a police official said.
"According to the information we have it was most probably the PKK," he told Reuters by telephone from Sivas. A local journalist confirmed the attack.
The guerrillas killed a policeman and another person in an attack on an intercity bus in the same area last week. Sivas has only a small Kurdish population and is not one of the ten southeastern provinces under emergency rule where the rebels are most active.
But rebel leader Abdullah Ocalan warned last week that his forces would stage attacks on the periphery of the mainly Kurdish southeast to stretch security forces.
More than 3,000 people have been killed in 12 years of conflict between soldiers the rebels, fighting for autonomy or independence.
The rebels damaged two government buildings in the town of Baskale, near the Iranian border, in a rocket attack on Monday night, Anatolian news agency said. No-one was injured.
The Finance Ministry set today's opening price for tap sales of the Dutch government's new 5.75 percent bond due September 2002 at 100.30.
Tap sales of the new bond opened on Monday at a price of 100.60 but this was later lowered to 100.40.
Tap sales will continue daily from 07.00 GMT to 15.00 GMT until further notice.
The weather in Hong Kong will remain fine and hot with haze on Tuesday afternoon with the chance of one of two thunderstorms, the Royal Observatory said.
The number one tropical cyclone warning is in effect.
At 3 pm (0700 GMT) the centre of severe tropical storm Niki was estimated at about 670 km southeast of the territotry and was forecast to move west at about 22 kmh.
The Federal Reserve held interest rates steady Tuesday amid signs the economy was slowing from its burst of growth in the second quarter without inflation heating up.
The decision by the central bank's policy-making Federal Open Market Committee had been widely expected and left the key federal funds rate that commercial banks charge each other for short-term loans unchanged at 5.25 percent.
"The Federal Open Market Committee meeting ended at 12:45 p.m (1645 GMT). There is no further announcement," central bank spokesman Joseph Coyne said in a brief statement.
Stock prices rose after the Fed announcement, with the Dow Jones industrial average adding 21.82 points to 5,721.26. While the decision had been expected, analysts said investors were relieved nonetheless. Bond prices ended little changed.
The decision to hold rates steady kept the Fed out of the line of political fire ahead of the Nov. 5 presidential and congressional elections.
"If the Fed had raised interest rates now, given the rather benign inflation data we've seen, there would have been a political lynch mob at the central bank," said Ken Mayland, chief economist for St. Louis-based banking group KeyCorp.
After growing at its fastest pace in two years in the second quarter, the economy appears to have slowed recently as the housing market has weakened and retail sales have stalled.
Most analysts expect the economy to slow further later this year. But it remains an open question whether it will slow enough to keep inflation in check.
That means a precautionary rate rise is possible later in the year, once the Fed has more evidence to help it measure how much the expansion is slowing, economists said.
More than half of 29 economists surveyed by Reuters Tuesday week forecast a rate increase by the end of the year.
The Fed holds its next policy-making meeting on Sept. 24. Since cutting rates by a quarter point in January, the central bank has held rates steady as growth first waned, then waxed.
David Jones, vice chairman of Wall Street broker Aubrey G. Lanston and Co., said the Fed will face a tougher task next month, in part because of a potential pickup in inflation.
But he too is betting that the central bank will not raise rates until later in the year. "Fed officials would probably like to push out any decision beyond the election," he said.
Tuesday's Fed meeting was sandwiched between the Republican Party's presidential nominating convention last week in San Diego and the Democrats' next week in Chicago.
A rate rise ahead of the election would not be good news for President Clinton in his drive to win re-election, although it would likely have little immediate impact on the economy that still has considerable momentum.
The economy grew at a 4.2 percent annual rate in the second quarter -- about twice the speed most economists reckon is sustainable on a long-term basis without fanning inflation.
The jobs market has remained strong, putting extra money in workers' pockets and portending continued solid consumer spending.
At 5.4 percent, the unemployment rate is hovering just above a six-year low and near levels that in the past have forced employers to bid up wages to attract workers, feeding inflation.
Fed Chairman Alan Greenspan told lawmakers last month that wage increases had been held in check by workers' worries that they might lose their jobs. But he warned that those fears would eventually fade and said the central bank needed to remain vigilant to prevent a wage-driven rise in inflation.
Note: Company's full name is Malayan Banking Bhd.
Germany's BND intelligence service, under pressure from recent foul-ups, faced the prospect of fresh embarrassment after conceding it had been in contact with a man wanted for smuggling chemical weapons-making equipment to Libya.
The BND on Tuesday dismissed allegations by Stern magazine that the suspect, Lebanese-born Berge Balanian, had been a BND informer for four years.
But, in a statement, it said it had interviewed Balanian at length in connection with Libya's weapons programme in 1992, at a time when the smuggling operation was in full swing.
On Monday, German authorities announced they had arrested two German businessmen on suspicion of passing the high-tech equipment to Tripoli between 1990 and 1993.
They believe Balanian, a German citizen, arranged the deal and used firms he owned in Belgium to export the goods. They now are hunting him under an international arrest warrant.
The BND said in a statement that it had known since 1990 about Libya's intention to build a chemical weapons plant, and about the activities of a firm in Belgium, SIM, which Balanian joined no later than 1992.
BND agents questioned Balanian on nine occasions, beginning in September 1992.
But the agency, which is still fighting accusations that it lured smugglers into bringing highly radioactive plutonium to Germany from Moscow on a passenger airliner in 1994, failed to stop Libya getting its equipment.
"(Balanian) merely reported in general terms about the situation in Libya; he gave no information about his own business in or with Libya," the BND said.
In an advance release from Thursday's edition, Stern had quoted Balanian as saying he had agreed his actions with the BND for four years, and that the BND must therefore have known about the smuggling operation.
"For years I have been sticking my neck out, now they want to dump on me," it quoted him saying in an interview several weeks ago. Stern said Balanian was now probably in Libya.
The latest question-mark over the BND's effectiveness comes shortly after a scandal in which BND staff were investigated for embezzling over one million marks ($700,000) intended to buy the services of Russian officers leaving former East Germany.
The men were also believed to have sold information on the Russian military to a British secret agent, and the affair led eventually to the resignation of BND head Konrad Porzner.
News of the illegal exports is also worrying for the Bonn, government, which clamped down on the arms trade after German firms in the 1980s equipped a plant at Rabta in Libya suspected of making chemical weapons. Prosecutors believe Balanian also tried to supply equipment for Rabta.
The factory burned down in a mysterious fire in 1990. But earlier this year U.S. officials accused Libya of trying to build a new chemical weapons plant, this time underground, at Tarhuna, 65 km (40 miles) southeast of Tripoli.
Share in BSkyB were indicated 2p lower at 535p in pre-market trade after the company declared a dividend that fell slightly short of expectations, dealers said.
The British satellite and cable television broadcasting concern said its pre-tax profits rose 66 percent to 257.4 million stg for the year ended June 30, above the concensus of analysts' estimates of 253.3 million stg. But the dividend of 5.5p per share was about 1p below analysts' forecasts.
The shares have risen by almost 16 percent during the last month, reaching a peak at 537p on August 19.
Chicago Board of Trade's Project A overnight agricultural contracts trading volume totaled 712 contracts, according to the CBOT.
There were 121 wheat contracts, 275 corn, 301 soybean, one soymeal, 11 soyoil and 3 oat contracts traded.
The overnight trend for corn was 1-1/2 cents per bushel higher to 1/4 cents lower, soybeans 3-1/4 to 4 cents higher, wheat 3/4 cent higher, soymeal 80 cents per ton higher, soyoil 0.26 cent per lb higher, and oats 1/4 cent per bushel lower.
Caracas stocks continued rising albeit in thin trade on the back of Friday's surge as foreign bidders foucsed on key blue chip stocks such as foods producer Mavesa, traders said.
"Investors are back because stocks are under-priced," said one broker.
Mavesa gained 6.00 bolivars to close at 112.00 as some 3.5 million shares were cross traded at a price of around 110 bolivars, traders said.
Nearly 14 million shares traded worth 1.8 billion bolivars ($3.8 million). Among traded issues, 31 rose, five closed flat and five fell.
Among the session's other leading trades, Mantex edged ahead 0.10 bolivar to close at 43 bolivars as nearly one million shares were cross-traded, while Sudamtex B stock gained 0.45 bolivars to close at 58.45 as 500,000 shares were cross-traded.
Konica Corp said on Tuesday its parent current profit would be at least five billion yen in the six months to September 30.
Konica said earlier this year that its parent current profit for the first half of 1996/97 would be five billion yen against actual current profit of 2.39 billion yen a year ago.
"This term's current profit will not fall below five billion yen," a Konica spokesman said. The expected profit rise is due to the weaker yen, cost-cutting steps and active sales of photographic film, he said. Half-year sales are expected at 180 billion yen, up seven percent from a year ago.
The United Mine Workers of America said on Tuesday that it struck a deal with the Bituminious Coal Operators Association that would improve wages, health insurance and pension benefits.
The pact includes wage bonuses of $600 a year for 1997 and 1998 to union members employed by BCOA companies. It also calls for holding early negotiating sessions next year in advance of the current contract's expiration on August 31, 1998, the union said.
Britain's largest mortgage lender Halifax Building Society on Tuesday reported half year profits of 649 million pounds ($1 billion) and said its 10 billiion pound stock market flotation was on track for June 1997.
However, the society said its share of Britain's reviving housing market slipped as it took a 7.2 percent share of net mortage lending in the first half of the year and 15.2 percent of gross mortgage lending.
Halifax spokesman Gary Marsh told Reuters in an interview these levels were below its normal market share of around 20 percent because it had shied away from re-mortgaging which accounted for 30 percent of the total mortgage market.
The size of the re-mortgage market -- when borrowers do not move home but are lured by another lenders -- reflects the low level of transactions from home movers, said Marsh.
One analyst said the slip reflected the society's pursuit of profits as it prepared for a stock market flotation and a distinction from those societies which did not intend to leave the mutually-owned sector.
Building societies are owned by their savers and borrowers who will share in the proceeds of the flotations of those societies which intend to become banks next year.
However, societies which intend to remain owned by their members say they can undercut the mortgage rates offered by their soon-to-be-banking rivals as they do not have to satisify shareholders' demands for profits.
Marsh said Halifax members -- savers and borrowers -- would find out their share in the new bank with the publication of the new transfer document early next year.
They will vote on the flotation in February 1997 which means the flotation would probably take place in June, he added.
Most of the ten largest societies are seeking flotations to become banks because they say this gives them the ability to diversify from their traditional home-loan provider roots.
Halifax is already diversifing. It is in the process of merging with insurance group Clerical Medical and merged last year with rival building society Leeds Permanent.
This, along with the flotation, means further acquisitions are unlikely this year. "We look at non-organic as well as organic growth, but that's the story for 1997," said Marsh.
He said that so far this year net mortgage lending is eight billion pounds and forecasts a figure of 16 billion pounds by year-end. But that is dwarfed by the 40 billion pounds of net lending in the boom year of 1988, said Marsh.
"Transactions are still at very low levels...but coming back quite nicely," said Marsh, adding the housing market was showing signs of making a sustainable recovery which would avoid the previous boom/bust cycle.
The pick-up in the housing market has been fuelled by a low inflation, low interest environment, Halifax said, pointing to the lowest mortgage rates in Britain for 30 years.
But a further cut in the Bank of England's official 5.75 percent base rate might not feed through to mortgages.
"If they (base rates) were to come down another quarter point you wouldn't necessarily expect further cuts in mortgage rates," said Marsh.
Halifax's benchmark standard variable mortgage rate is 6.99 percent, higher then the the largest remaining building society Nationwide which has a 6.49 percent rate.
-- Smith Barney initiated coverage of 10 banks with outperform and neutral ratings, a market source said.
-- The source said that Smith Barney initiated Signet Banking Corp, Summit Bancorp, Union Planters Corp, AmSouth Bancorp, Southtrust Corp and First Commerce Corp with neutral.
-- Further details were not immediately available.
Metal Recovery Technologies Inc said Tuesday it will redeem during the next four weeks its A preferred shares valued at about $675,000.
The redemption is part of the company's plan to seek a return to Nasdaq listing.
Metal Recovery said that conversion of about $2.5 million in loans by holders, the redemption and the start-up of production at an East Chicago plant will strengthen the company's balance sheet. This will allow Metal Recovery to fulfill Nasdaq listing requirements, the company said.
Metal Recovery uses a process which removes zinc from galvanized scrap steel that yields 99.8 percent pure zinc and high quality reusable scrap steel.
French Defence Minister Charles Millon said on Tuesday that Paris had no plans to cut back its military presence in Africa.
Millon, speaking in Senegal on the first leg of a trip that will also take him to Ivory Coast, said that this was the message he had come to deliver to African officials.
"There will be no substantial change in France's military presence in Africa," he told reporters.
Millon, who arrived in Senegal on Monday, told Radio France International that there was no question of modifying France's pre-positioned military presence in the world.
"There is no question of going back on the forces currently based in Senegal or Ivory Coast and that is what I have come to tell African, and particularly Senegalese, officials," he said.
Millon said prevention of conflict was an essential role for the French army. "There will be adjustments here and there in the light of redefined support or redefined missions but there will be no massive reduction in numbers," he added.
France has about 1,300 troops stationed in Senegal, a former French colony.
It has about 500 soldiers in Ivory Coast and contingents in Chad, Djibouti, Gabon and the Central African Republic, where it intervened in May under a defence pact to prevent an army revolt toppling elected president Ange-Felix Patasse.
forex dealers said. *FRA rates closed flat.
Finnish bond and forex markets were calm on Tuesday ahead of key central bank meetings in the U.S. and Germany this week, dealer said.
U.S. FOMC meeting today was seen unlikely to lift interest rates and focus shifted to Bundesbank meeting due on Thursday.
Views on whether Buba would cut the rate and on Finnish reactions to its decisions varied.
"If (Bundesbank) will not cut the rate, the financial markets will be disappointed," one dealer said.
Operators expected any Bank of Finland easing to be small and undramatic and on the forex market, recent industry calls for a markka link to the ERM were seen more of a cap on the markka upside than central bank action.
The markka closed slightly weaker vs the mark and the dollar but sentiment remained strong in the near term.
"The markka is likely to start testing the magic 3.0 mark level again," one forex dealer said.
Members of an International Monetary Fund mission will hold their first meeting with Argentine Economy Minister Roque Fernandez Friday, the Economy Ministry said Tuesday.
The mission, which aims to renegotiate Argentina's fiscal targets, was due to arrive in Buenos Aires late Tuesday, after delays in their flight from the United States.
Lower level technical meetings with Argentine officials may start before Friday.
Asia Pacific Resources International Holdings Ltd (April) closed at 6-3/8 in New York on Tuesday. It recorded the day's high of 6-3/8 and the day's low of 6-1/4.
Volume was 1,400 shares. Block volume was nil. Its previous close on Monday was 6-1/4.
April listed 20 million shares of Class A common stock in New York -- Jakarta newsroom (Tel: 6221-3846364).
Shanghai rice futures ended unchanged in slow trading on Tuesday, with most investors staying on the sidelines, traders said.
The only traded September 1996 contract ended at 2,536 yuan ($305) per tonne, unchanged from Monday's close. It opened at 2,534 yuan, hitting an intra-day low of 2,520 and high of 2,540.
Volume fell to 1,800 tonnes from 4,500.
Traders said rice continued to meet strong technical resistance at high levels due to a lack of follow-up buying.
"It is risky to build long positions at these levels due to poor fundamentals," one trader said.
An autopsy on model and actress Margaux Hemingway found that the granddaughter of novelist Ernest Hemingway committed suicide by taking an overdose of a sedative, it was reported on Tuesday.
KNBC television, Los Angeles flagship of the NBC network, said the coroner's office had determined that Hemingway, 41, whose body was found on July 1 in her Santa Monica apartment, had died of acute phenobarbital intoxication.
She had a history of epilepsy but according to KNBC she did not have a prescription for the drug and investigators are trying to find out where she got enough of it to kill herself. A coroner's investigator declined to comment on the report.
The actress, whose films included "Lipstick," "Killer Fish," "They Call Me Bruce?" "Over the Brooklyn Bridge," and "Inner Sanctum," had a well-publicised bout with alcoholism after a near-fatal skiing accident and also battled bulimia.
Her agent, Graham Kaye, told KNBC, "Whatever demons she was fighting is over now and ... it's just time to let her rest."
Hemingway's body was cremated and services were held in July in her hometown of Ketchum, Idaho.
PaineWebber Group Inc said on Tuesday that Donald Cacciapaglia has joined the firm as managing director and chief operating officer of the investment banking division.
Cacciapaglia, who will serve on the division's management committee, will be responsible for the client coverage process, recruiting, professional development and training, private client liaison, research liaison, strategic planning and investment grade debt new business.
Cacciapaglia joins PaineWebber from CS First Boston, a unit of CS Holding. At CS First Boston, he was chief operating officer of the short and intermediate fixed income trading group.
Before that, he was with Merrill Lynch & Co Inc for 18 years (corrects the number of years from 10).
At PaineWebber, Cacciapaglia will report to Brian Barefoot, director of investment banking.
NOTE: Q2 and six months 1996 oper net excludes $20 million litigation charge.
Periods ended July 31.
DynEco Corp said Tuesday it signed a research and development agreement with Lockheed Martin Energy Research Corp, to support the U.S. Department of Energy's hybrid electrical vehicle program.
DynEco's Orbital Vane compressor has been tested by Lockheed Martin and appears to be suitable for the vehicle. DynEco and Lockheed will work together to design, fabricate and further validate the compressor, DynEco said.
Note - The Bundesbank's target range for 1996 M3 money supply growth is four percent to seven percent.
Analysts polled by Reuters predicted seasonally-adjusted, annualised July M3 growth versus the average of the 1995 final quarter in a range of 8.5 to 9.2 percent. Forecasts averaged 8.8 percent.
The Hong Kong-based Shangri-La Group has opened its ninth hotel in China, in Changchun, the capital of northeastern Jilin province, the Xinhua news agency said on Tuesday.
The new five-star hotel cost $81 million and has 450 rooms, Xinhua said.
The group would open three more hotels in China in 1997 and would have 25,000 hotel rooms and $971 million in investment by 2000, Xinhua quoted company officials as saying.
Meanwhile, booming southern Guangdong province has a glut of hotel space, with barely enough travellers to fill just 210 of its more than 830 hotels, the China Daily said.
By keeping U.S. interest rates steady, the Federal Reserve gave an indirect boost to emerging market assets, which should see a continued inflow of foreign capital in search of higher yields.
The Fed's job of fine-tuning U.S. rates may have kept the developing world on edge, but U.S. monetary policy has brought consistent rewards to the recovering emerging markets.
The dentist in Dayton, Ohio and the truck driver in Tallahassee, Florida may not be aware but their pension funds were more likely to include the debts of emerging nations.
Steady U.S. monetary policy should mean that mainstream U.S. investors --  pension funds, insurance companies -- would pursue the emerging markets for the higher yields available.
"We think that the marginal buyer will continue to be swayed to the emerging fixed income markets as a way to enhance yield and expand their investment horizons," said John Hague, portfolio manager at PIMCO, which dedicates about $2.5 billion of an $80 billion bond portolio to the emerging markets.
For portfolio managers to meet expected returns, many have been forced to turn to the emerging markets.
By Monday, the JP Morgan Emerging Market Bond Index year-to-date was up more than 18 percent for Latin American markets and a whopping 39.5 percent for non-Latins, compared with the Lehman Government Bond Index's return of negative 1.55 percent this year as of July 31.
The bullishness in emerging markets could be stalled by a fright such as took place when Mexico botched a devaluation in December 1994, and set off a global capital flight.
The stable U.S. rate climate, coupled with the Brady bond rally, should also mean that Latin American investors who took their money out of the emerging markets during 1995 will continue to let their funds flow back.
"Foreign investors are seeking sources of higher yield in their home countries," said John Krey, chief investment strategist at Barclays Private Banking. "They are very interested in bringing back some of their money into their home countries."
The Fed's policy move will likely extend the Brady bond market's rally, and further the transition of the market from a speculative play into the mainstream.
"Emerging market bonds are coming in from the periphery of the global fixed income markets and are becoming much more of a mainstream portfolio holding," said Sandler.
A dozen alleged members of the Genovese organised crime family were accused Tuesday of racketeering and other crimes, including infiltrating health maintenance organisations and bilking patients with inflated fees, New Jersey officials said.
Among those charged were Steven Mazzola, chief executive officer of Hasbrouck Heights, New Jersey-based Tri-Con Associates, a broker that supervised the operation of HMOs and more than one million customers in five states, New Jersey Attorney General Peter Verniero said at a news conference.
Mazzola was identifed as an alleged associate of the Genovese crime family who allegedly helped them infiltrate the health care industry, Verniero said.
The Tri-Con-run HMOs would inflate their fees, and money would be paid in kickbacks to Mazzola and to other members of the crime family, Verniero said.
Control of the HMOs reached as high in the crime family as its reputed boss, Vincent "Chin" Gigante, authorities said.
"This scheme bilked the public of untold dollars through inflated billing," Verniero said, who said it was the first time to his knowledge that organised crime infiltrated an HMO.
"We will not tolerate members of organised crime in New Jersey, now or in the future," he said. "We will arrest them, we will prosecute them, we will punish them."
The suspects also were accused of controlling a Teamsters' union local in Union City, N.J., and a Hotel, Restaurant and Bartenders Employees local in Secaucus, N.J., authorities said.
The investigation showed that the crime family exerted control of the unions through Michael Sciarra, a former president of the Teamsters' local, they said.
During the two-year investigation, undercover agents compiled hundreds of hours of tape recordings of the alleged crime family members that will be used in the prosecution, authorities said.
They also stand accused of gambling, loansharking and other crimes, Verniero said.
The HMOs themselves were not accused of any crimes, officials said.
The European Union on Tuesday called on Burundi to seek peace, saying it would support recovery efforts if resolve was shown.
Ireland -- which holds the rotating presidency of the 15-nation bloc -- said in a statement that the EU was deeply concerned about the situation in Burundi.
This comes after reports from Rwanda saying aid agencies were preparing for a flood of Hutu refugees fleeing Burundi under pressure from the Tutsi-led army.
The EU said it was essential for all political groups, civil societies and the Organisation of African Unity to engage in dialogue to bring about peace in Burundi.
The latest Burundi crisis comes four weeks after new military strongman Pierre Buyoya promised to halt forced repatriation in the face of international condemnation.
Burundi officials accuse the refugees of supporting Hutu rebels waging a guerrilla war against the Burundian army.
White House press secretary Mike McCurry poked some fun at his boss on Tuesday saying he was not so sure about President Bill Clinton's claim to have dropped 15 to 20 pounds (7-9 kilograms).
"He may have lost 15 to 20. I thought that sounded like an inflation factor to me," McCurry said.
When reporters noticed Clinton looked slimmer on his Wyoming vacation last week, the president boasted that he had "dropped 15 to 20 pounds, I guess."
But McCurry said it was unclear what baseline Clinton was using. His last physical at few months ago put him at 215 pounds (97 kilos).
"You'd have to know what the baseline was you're measuring against on that. But he cares about his health and eating habits and his exercise regime, and he follows the advice of his doctors on those and other specific health concerns. And as the president's doctor reported, he's in excellent health," McCurry said.
As for whether Clinton will sample some of Chicago's famous pizza during the Democratic nominating convention next week, McCurry said: "There will probably be many temptations in Chicago of a culinary sort that he will find irresistible."
World oil prices slipped on Tuesday in a market where refiners stung by high crude premiums and poor margins began to bargain for a cheaper barrel.
October futures for world benchmark Brent Blend crude from the North Sea closed down 38 cents at $20.43 a barrel after failing to break through the day's high of $20.80.
"There was a broad feeling in the market that Brent was overheated and had to come down," a trader said.
On the unofficial Brent forward market, prompt differentials for Dated or physical Brent shrank, suggesting cargoes would fetch lower premiums in the weeks ahead. This could avert the risk of refineries running less crude through their systems to pump up the price of products.
The market was also waiting for direction from U.S. stocks data due out later on Tuesday which is forecast to show a 1.3 million barrel build in heating oil and diesel stocks in the run-up to the winter season, when gasoline gives way to heating oil as the guiding light for crude prices.
Low inventory builds in the United States were largely supportive of the North Sea and West African markets with 5.0 million barrels of distillate-rich North Sea grades heading trans-Atlantic in the last week alone.
Caltex said on Tuesday it was raising the wholesale price of regular and premium petrol and diesel by one cent a litre (including GST), effective midnight.
The wholesale price varies with commission levels, discount levels and location within New Zealand, but a Caltex spokesman said the retail price of unleaded 91 would rise to about 90 cents a litre from 89.
Temperatures in Japan are generally expected to be at average and higher-than-average levels from September to November, with average rainfall also anticipated, the Meteorological Agency said on Tuesday.
In September, temperatures will be higher than average, while rainfall will be at average levels, the agency said in its three-month forecast.
October will see as many sunny days as is usual for the month, and temperatures will be average, it said. Precipitation will be lower than average in most areas, but average in northern Japan and the southern Ryukyu islands, it said.
For November, the agency forecasts average temperatures and rainfall. However, coastal areas facing the sea of Japan in northern and eastern Japan will tend to have many cloudy, rainy or snowy days, the agency said.
Talbots Inc said on Tuesday there was "unexpected" softening of sales during the last two weeks of July.
"Had this softening occurred earlier in the quarter, we could have reacted further from the expense side to more fully protect earnings for the quarter," said Arnold Zetcher, chief executive officer, in a press release.
Talbots said that while readings from its early fall catalog allow the company to remain "hopeful", it continues to be cautious.
Talbots reported earnings for the second quarter ended August 3 of $0.20 a share down from $0.24 a share the previous second quarter.
Second quarter net sales were $232.1 million up from $226.9 million. Comparable store sales fell 4.9 percent.
The company also said that it is on track to open 75 new stores by the end of fiscal 1996, for a total of 535 stores worldwide.
Levi Strauss & Co. said Tuesday it was launching a line of slacks meant to appeal to men who don't like suits, in only the third major brand introduction in the company's 140-year history.
The new slacks, to be called Slates, will be marketed as dressier than the company's famous jeans or its Dockers pants brand, but not as formal as suits.
The pants, to be aimed at men in their 30s and 40s who grew up wearing Levi's jeans and Dockers khakis, are meant to give a big boost to the San Francisco-based clothing company, though how well men accept the new line remains to be seen, industry analysts said.
"We're going to awaken a sleeping giant of a category that we think has enormous potential," Jann Westfall, president of the Slates brand, said in a statement.
Those men want something different to wear as the workplace gets more casual, "a new look for business and social occasions that falls between casual cotton pants and suits," Westfall said.
The pants will come in flannel, wool gabardine and other fabrics with a suggested retail price of $50 to $90 a pair, said Lory Cogan, Levi vice president for marketing.
The new line will come in a broad range of styles, colours and sizes, and the pants in most cases will not require tailoring, which Levi hopes will lure men who want hassle-free shopping.
Cogan said research revealed that men hate to shop for dress pants and believe "it's more enjoyable to go to the dentist" because they can't find what they need or like.
Slates aims to change that when it makes its debut this fall in department stores, backed by a $20 million marketing campaign.
"They will probably dominate the market," said retail consultant Alan Millstein. He added that slacks are a small market with very few players, such as the Haggar and Farah brands.
He said that Levi Strauss is trying to expand its business by going after the $1.9 billion-a-year market, but he doesn't see it as a "great growth engine" for the company.
Millstein questioned how many pairs of slacks men would buy at the prices set by Levi's.
A research study done last year for the company showed that 85 percent of American companies that had a traditional dress code were now allowing some form of more casual attire in the workplace.
In a national telephone survey of men in their 30s and 40s, almost half of men who do not work in jeans or a uniform said their office dress code is somewhere between suits and cotton pants, according to Levi Strauss.
Westfall believes Slates will allow men to express more individuality, youthfulness and personal style than they can in a suit. She said the pants have an "accessible style."
The privately held company, which employs 36,000 people around the world, had global sales of $6.7 billion in 1995.
An extra production levy for "B" quota sugar is due to be discussed by the European Union's sugar management committee on Wednesday, EU sources said.
The European Commission is checking export refund figures and receipts to see if there is a budget shortfall for financing the cost of disposing of surplus EU sugar.
The weekly EU white sugar export tender will also be held on Wednesday.
Australia's new conservative government on Wednesday began selling its tough deficit-slashing budget, which sparked violent protests by Aborigines, unions, students and welfare groups even before it was announced.
Two days of anti-budget street protests preceded spending cuts officially unveiled by Treasurer Peter Costello.
"This is a once-in-a-decade chance to get it right," Costello said in a radio interview.
"If we don't do it now, Australia is going to be in deficit and debt into the next century."
Tuesday's budget sliced A$4 billion (US$3.1 billion) from the budget for the current fiscal year, to June 1997, as a first instalment towards an underlying surplus (excluding asset sales) by 1998/99.
Costello told parliament the 1996/97 deficit would be A$5.6 billion, down from A$10.3 last year.
Earlier, about 150 protesting Aborigines had attacked police with bricks, bottles and stakes during a 20-minute confrontation near the Parliament House.
As the protesters had feared, Costello revealed a cut to the government's Aboriginal welfare commission among the hundreds of measures implemented to claw back the deficit.
Programmes for the unemployed were heavily cut, and Costello fended off criticism that the government, driven by conservative ideology, had targetted the poor.
"There'll be a lot of people quaffing their wines down at Pitt Street who won't like it," he said, referring to Sydney's central business district.
Financial markets were mildly disappointed that the budget failed to be as tough as they expected. The Australian dollar and bonds fell immediately after the budget announcement.
The government's political opponents accused it of sleight of hand, taking from the public when it appeared to give.
The budget's fate was not immediately clear, with minor parties refusing to guarantee passage through the Senate, the upper house of parliament.
Australian Democrats leader Cheryl Kernot said it was too early to say if her party would pass all measures.
The government needs two extra votes -- from the Democrats, the two Greens or two Independents -- to get its legislation past the Labor Opposition in the Senate.
Labor, beaten in the March 2 federal election and which the government blames for Australia's economic woes after 13 years of Labor rule, said the government was hurting the weakest groups in society and was short on detail.
The head of the Australian Council of Trade Unions, Jennie George, told reporters the budget hurt the weakest groups in the community and did nothing to solve Australia's high unemployment rate - now 8.5 percent.
"The scenario for unemployment is very bleak indeed," George said.
The cuts, many of which had been disclosed ahead of the budget, have sparked protests around the country and triggered rioting during a protest by unionists, students, Aborigines and welfare groups at Parliament House on Monday.
Violence flared again on Tuesday as Aboriginals gathered in Canberra to protest against funding cuts.
But financial markets, which had been expecting a lower deficit were lukewarm.
"It's a relatively tough budget but not as tough as advertised. That's the bottom line that is coming through," UBS Australia chief economist Stephen Roberts told Reuters.
"The Treasury did not accept the bids," the spokesman said.
Market sources had forecast that yields could rise slightly at the sale of the March 2001 paper.
The average rate had been 8.0161 percent at the last sale on July 25 while the secondary market closed at 8.0 percent on Monday.
Turkish steel wire and rope producer Celik Halat is likely to miss its 1996 export and domestic sales targets due to contraction in domestic and international markets, a senior firm official said.
"Our export target was to match the 1995 level of $17 million. We think we will push up our exports to $15 million in 1996, 15 percent below the target," Gunay, board member and general manager of the company, told Reuters in an interview.
He blamed poor export performance on "recession in Western markets."
The company is not able to achieve its target of increasing 1995 domestic sales by 15 percent because of political crisis in the first half of the year in which state run customers halted purchases, he said.
The firm's 1995 domestic sales were 1.06 trillion lira.
Many state companies did not open tender during the political turmoil which erupted in late September 1995 and hampered the economy.
"But we are hopeful for the future begining from 1997. We started a $6 million production capacity expansion investment. About $2.5 million of it will be realised this year," Gunay added.
Celik Halat is now searching for new export markets such as Pakistan, Bangladesh, Portugal, Slovenia and Hungary.
Despite bleak picture in 1996, Gunay said Celik Halat needed to increase its capacity.
"Because we are operating almost at full capacity with three shifts a day...our total production capacity will climb to 47,000 tonnes from the current 41,000 tonnes."
Celik Halat has a 65 percent stake in the domestic market.
A new competitor -- Beksa, a joint venture of Turkey's leading Sabanci Group and Belgium's Bekaert -- has begun test production.
"We don't expect Beksa to enter into market and create competition before 1998," Gunay said. "We will be competing in steel wires which are used in tyre manufacturing after then."
"Cheap products from the East European countries are our main problem. They are cheaper by some 40 percent," he said.
The company has applied to the Foreign Trade Undersecretary last week with damping charges against East European goods.
Celik Halat sells steel wires to tyre producers in Turkey, like Bridgestone, Goodyear and Pirelli.
The company reported 1.21 trillion lira of total sales in the first half, up from 806 billion lira in the same 1995 period. Its net profit went up to 158 billion lira from 49 billion.
Natural Gas Corporation Chief Executive Richard Bentley said on Wednesday he expected continued growth in the commercial and domestic sectors of the gas sales and distribution market.
Bentley was addressing analysts and journalists after NGC announced a net profit for the year to June 30 of NZ$28.0 million, up from $22.2 million.
He said overall, the prospects for Natural Gas were sound, and it would be participating as fully as possible in the developing energy market.
"I expect the strong operating performance will continue and that through efficiency improvements we will continue to stimulate use of our assets and achieve higher through-puts."
Bentley said NGC was not limiting its horizons to New Zealand.
"Much is also happening overseas, particularly in Australia, that holds interest for this company," he said.
Florida's unemployment rate edged up to 5.1 percent in July from 5 percent in June, the state Department of Labor and Employment Security said Tuesday.
The figures represent 359,000 jobless Floridians out of a civilian labor force of 6.99 million. The state added 176,500 jobs over the year, a gain of 3 percent, putting the nonfarm employment total at 6.08 million.
Services saw the biggest gains over the year, 86,800 jobs for a 4.2 percent growth rate. That growth rate has been declining since October, when it reached 7.3 percent.
Trade added 46,000 jobs over the year, with wholesale trade continuing to grow faster than retail trade.
Construction was unchanged, while manufacturing lost 3,400 jobs since last July. All of the manufacturing losses were in nondurable goods.
The transportation, communications and public utilities sector gained 9,100 jobs or 3 percent over the year. Finance, insurance and real estate added 8,500 jobs for a 2.2 percent yearly gain. Government added 21,500 jobs or 2.5 percent over the year.
All of Florida's metropolitan areas had over-the-year employment increases. The Tampa-St. Petersburg area gained the most jobs, 30,900, while Fort Lauderdale had the fastest job growth rate, 3.9 percent.
More than two-thirds of Florida's 67 counties had unemployment rates below both the state and national average in July. Lafayette County had the lowest unemployment rate, 2.2 percent, while Hendry had the highest, 24 percent.
Nationally, the employment rate was 5.4 percent for July, up from 5.3 perent in June. Florida's jobless rate has stayed below the national average for 15 of the last 17 months.
Opposition leader Ranil Wickremasinghe says government should fulfill promises given to the people.
UNP to hold talks with Tamil and Moslem parties on devolution proposals on Wednesday.
Nurses to strike to back demand for higher wages.
President Chandrika Kumaratunga says government has clear cut plan to win war.
Government prepares refugee camps in Vavuniya for people fleeing fighting in Kilinochchi.
Douglas Peiris, police officer wanted in alleged torture probe, fled abroad at behest of opposition politician and senior police officers.
Students who rag freshers to be expelled from school.
--$18.5 million Franklin Cty, N.C., GO bonds for schools.
other capital projects.
hike for schools, roads and football stadium.
--Westin, Fla., residents vote whether to incorporate as new city.
-- $184 million Richland Cty, S.C., schools bonds.
-- $25 million Stokes Cty, N.C., general obligation bonds.
-- $1.870 million Martinville Ind Sch Dist, Texas, school g.o. bonds.
--$14.8 million Mount Vernon Ind Sch Dist, Texas, school g.o. bonds.
--$215 million King Cty, Wash., new park bonds.
--$174.6 million Richardson Ind Sch Dist, Texas, school g.o. bonds.
--$66.8 million LaPorte Ind Sch Dist, Texas, school g.o. bonds.
--$94.5 million Tulsa Ind Sch Dist, Okla., g.o school bonds.
--$20 million Jasper Ind Sch Dist, Texas, g.o. school bonds.
--$2 billion Los Angeles Unified School District, Calif., school bonds.
--$1.8 billion North Carolina GO bonds for schools.
--$1.75 billion New York Clean Water, Clean Air Bond Act. Would fund a variety of environmental projects through-out the state.
--$995 million, California Proposition 204 - Safe, Clean, Reliable Water Supply Act. Would authorize the issuance of general obligation bonds to finance water programs.
--$950 million North Carolina GO bonds for highways.
--$750 million Los Angeles, Calif., park bonds.
--$700 million, California Proposition 205 - Youthful and Adult Offender Local Facilities Bond Act of 1996. Would authorize the issuance of general obligation bonds to construct, renovate, remodel and replace county juvenile and adult correctional facilities.
--$550 million West Virginia GO bonds for roads.
--$400 million, California Proposition 206 - Veterans' Bond Act of 1996. Would authorize the issuance of general obligation bonds to fund a program of farm, home and mobilehome loans.
--$319 million Los Angeles Cty, Calif., greenbelt, zoo improvement bonds.
--$300 million New Jersey port dredging bonds.
--$225 million Sacramento Unif Sch Dist, Calif., school g.o. bonds.
--$200 million Dade County, Fla., general obligation bonds for parks.
--$174.8 million Chesterfield Cty, Va., GO bonds for schools.
--$100 million San Francisco, Calif., general obligation bonds.
--$98.4 million Charlotte, N.C., GO bonds for streets and drainage.
--$43.8 million Arlington Cty, Va., county government g.o.bonds.
--$37 million Greensboro, N.C., general obligation bonds.
--$34 million Chesterfield Cty, Va., GO bonds for public safety.
--$30 million Cobb County, Ga., GO bonds for recreation.
--$29.1 million Arlington Cty, Va., g.o. school bonds.
--$25 million Greensboro, N.C., GO bonds for public safety.
--$13.5 million Chapel Hill, N.C., GO bonds for parks, streets and sidewalks.
--$12 million Sante Fe, N.M., bond measure to fund public works projects.
--$11.5 million Wilmington, N.C., GO bonds for stormwater drainage, parks and roads.
--$10.3 million Chesterfield Cty, Va., GO bonds for libraries.
--$10 million Greensboro, N.C., GO bonds for housing.
--$9.3 million Chesterfield Cty, Va., GO bonds for parks.
-- $6 million Apex, N.C., general obligation bonds.
--$1.5 million Albany, N.Y., issue.
--Louisiana parishes vote whether to keep gambling legal.
--Florida referendum on proposal requiring two-thirds voter approval for statewide tax increases.
--South Carolina referendum on amendment allowing state pension money to be invested in equities.
--Knoxville and Knox County, Tenn., vote on proposal to consolidate government.
--North Carolina amendment to give governor veto powers.
--Georgia referendum on proposal to end intangibles tax.
--Prince George's County, Md., vote on proposal to repeal property tax cap.
--Leon Cty, Fla., two-year extension of one-percent local option sales tax.
--California Proposition 210 - Minimum Wage Increase. Increases the current state minimum wage of $4.25 per hour to $5.00 per hour on March 1, 1997 and then to $5.75 per hour on March 1, 1998.
--California Proposition 217 - Top Income Tax Brackets. Continues highest tax rates of 10 percent and 11 percent on residents with taxable income over $100,000 and $200,000 respectively.
--California Proposition 218 - Voter Approval for Local Government Taxes. Limits authority of local governments to impose taxes and property-related assessments, fees and charges. Requires majority of voters approve increases in general taxes and reiterates that two-thirds must approve special taxes.
China is investing an average of 200 billion yuan a year in housing but further reform is needed to make the sector a hot spot of economic growth, the China Securities newspaper said on Tuesday.
Investment in housing as a proportion of residents' expenditures had dropped in recent years and was not enough to meet demand, the newspaper quoted State Planning Commission chief Chen Jinhua as saying.
China still subsidises housing for most urban residents. The state has been trying to push up rents to real market levels so that it can afford to pay for property improvements.
If spending by residents were increased it would help spur development in the steel, cement, timber, chemical and home appliance industries, Chen said.
Texas State Senator and long-time Finance Committee Chairman John Montford Tuesday became the first chancellor of Texas Tech University, his chief of staff said.
Montford, of Lubbock, accepted the post Tuesday morning and is expected to resign from the Senate on Wednesday, staff chief Jerry Hall said.
"This is a brand new position that Tech is filling for the first time," Hall said.
Montford, 53, a senate member for about 13 years and chairman of the finance committee since 1990, wrote the senate versions of the last four Texas budgets, Hall said.
Montford accepted the chancellorship because it offers "other opportunities,...wider horizons, (and) a real new challenge," his chief of staff said.
To replace Montford, "it will take a special election to be called by the governor, and it's a wide open race," Hall said.
Shares in Eridania Beghin-Say rose around four percent on the Paris bourse on signs of cheaper raw material prices as well as a technical bounce, dealers said.
At 1334 GMT the stock was up 25 francs or 3.5 percent at 740 francs after surging as high as 749 francs.
U.S. corn prices have fallen by a third in the past month, putting pressure on corn (or maize) prices elsewhere and helping to reduce Eridania's key input cost for starch production.
Several analysts called Eridania a buy for those prepared to weather what some say could be disappointing interim results.
"The dividend is nice, the yield is attractive and the shareholders are solid. But the first-half results are going to be particularly bad which could provoke a few more share price reactions," predicted analyst Annie Bonal of Cholet Dupont.
Besides animal feed and olive oil, costs and margins for other branches of the agro-food group look less favourable and these are seen likely to weigh on earnings, analysts said.
Latest tests show French sugar yields are down this year.
Chip producer Austria Mikro Systeme International AG reported on Tuesday a group pre-tax loss of 3.1 million schillings for the first six months due to losses at its two majority owned subsidiaries.
Sales reached 1.01 billion schillings, while net profit excluding minority interests hit 50.2 million. Comparative group figures are not available as AMS bought South Africa's SAMES and Germany's Thesys in the second half of 1995.
The results sent a shiver through investors and the share price shed 6.21 percent to record a new low for the year at 740 schillings in early Vienna trading.
"AMS is a surprise. Three million losses for the whole group looks quite weak and it explains the sell-off," said a trader at an Austrian bank.
In the parent company, sales declined 12.7 percent to 710.4 million schillings, while pre-tax profit jumped 25.7 percent to 128.4 million schillings. Net profit was steady at 102.3 million schillings.
AMS said its 51-percent owned SAMES subsidiary posted a loss of 64.9 million schillings on sales of 87.6 million.
Thesys, of which AMS owns 51.25 percent, posted a loss of 83.9 million schillings on sales of 270.1 million.
"As SAMES and Thesys are being transformed into becoming mainly suppliers of ASICs (application specific integrated circuits), they are expected to return to profitability," AMS said in a statement.
AMS expects ASICs production to account for some 50 percent of sales for SAMES and Thesys by the end of 1996 and "provided problems in the microchip market do not worsen, SAMES should break even by the end of 1996 and Thesys by mid-1997."
The group net profit of 50.2 million schillings comprises the parent's 102.3 million schilling profit, SAMES' loss of 33.1 million schillings and Thesys' 43 million loss.
The figure also includes consolidation gains of 4.1 million schillings as well as 19.8 million schillings from a release of the negative differences resulting from the initial capital consolidation of 97.1 million schillings, which were disclosed as provisions for restructuring costs at the time of the two acquisitions.
For the full year, AMS reiterated that it cannot disengage fully from the development of the market, which continues to be determined by worldwide overcapacities.
"The overall decline seen in the first half of the year has not bottomed out," AMS said, but did not elaborate.
Austalia's mining and metals commodities markets are unlikely to react much to Australia's 1996/1997 budget, unveiled on Tuesday, analyst and traders said.
The key component of the budget relevant to miners, the retention of a diesel fuel tax rebate, was already made known to the industry a week ago.
"From a commodities standpoint, the budget is deadpan, super-slugged," said an analyst for an international bank.
The Broken Hill Pty Co ltd, Australia's largest company and the world's number two copper producer, closed four cents down at at A$17.50.
The budget put some pressure on the Australian dollar, which some think could push up Australian dollar-denominated gold.
Australia's new conservative government on Tuesday unveiled a 1996/97 budget making sweeping spending cuts.
The executive director of the Minerals Council of Australia said the council supported the government's medium-term fiscal strategy of a return to an underlying budget surplus.
"The Coalition government's action will cause some adjustments and pain but as a country australia cannot continue to spend and tax beyond the capacity of the economy to deliver," the council's executive director, David Buckingham, said.
"This budget helps create a sound basis for sustainable long-term economic growth," Buckingham said in a statement.
He said the minerals industry "particularly appreciated" the government's decision to retain the diesel rebate.
China's imports of edible vegetable oils, including palm oil, in the first seven months were 1.74 million tonnes, down 26.9 percent from the same period last year, the China Securities newspaper said on Tuesday.
In July, imports of edible vegetable oils, including palm oil were 310,000 tonnes, up from 220,000 tonnes in June, it said quoting customs statistics.
Imports of other vegetable oils in January-July were 70,000 tonnes, down 44.6 percent from the same 1995 period. Imports in July were nil, it said.
China imported 1.43 million tonnes of edible vegetable oils, including palm oil, in the first half, down 33.5 percent from the same 1995 period, customs figures have shown.
F&M Bancorp Inc will acquire State Bank of East Troy under a definitive agreement, the banks said on Tuesday.
State Bank of East Troy has assets of about $55 million and one location in East Troy, Wis., they said.
The transaction will result in shareholders of the bank's parent, East Troy Bancshares Inc, receiving F&M Bancorp stock in an undisclosed amount, the banks said.
Completion is expected in the first quarter of 1997.
With the addition of State Bank of East Troy, F&M Bancorp will serve customers through 50 locations in Wisconsin, with combined assets of more than $1.1 billion.
Following is a summary of major Indonesian political and business stories in leading newspapers, prepared by Reuters in Jakarta. Reuters has not checked the stories and does not guarantee their accuracy. Telephone: (6221) 384-6364. Fax: (6221) 344-8404.
A Catholic priest will be questioned by the police in connection with the July 27 riots in Jakarta. He is accused of protecting Budiman Sudjatmiko, leader of the People's Democratic Party (PRD), blamed by the government for the riots.
President Suharto calls for greater cooperation among developing nations to overcome common obstacles and shortcomings. Suharto, speaking during a banquest in honour of visiting Turkish Prime Minister Necmettin Erbakan, said people of all nations should work together in building a new economic order that is more just and equitable.
The Capital Market Supervisory Agency (Bapepam) has delayed issuing permits for 17 foreign security companies which plan to operate in Indonesia, saying the agency has yet to screen the applications.
The South Jakarta district court has rejected the suit filed by labour leader Muchtar Pakpahan against the Attorney General for arresting him in connection with the July 27 riots in Jakarta. The court said the arrest was in line with criminal code procedures. Pakpahan is accused of subversion.
Year		     Amount    Coupon     Yield     Price  Conc.
Russian ultra-nationalist leader Vladimir Zhirinovsky vowed on Tuesday to mount pressure on the Russian government to help end U.N. trade sanctions on Iraq and blamed Moscow for delaying the establishment of good ties with Baghdad.
"We are the (Russian) liberal democratic party...We will press the Russian government to lift the embargo," Zhirinovsky said on the second day of his visit to Iraq.
"Our stand is firm namely we are calling on (the Russian government) to end the economic embargo on Iraq and resume trade ties between Russia and Iraq," he said.
Iraq is under crippling United Nations trade sanctions imposed after its 1990 invasion of Kuwait. The curbs include a ban on Iraq's oil exports and imports of goods apart from humanitarian needs for which Iraq has little cash to pay.
Baghdad signed on May 20 an agreement with the U.N. allowing it partial oil sales worth $2 billion every six months to buy food and medicine for the Iraqi people.
"It (the deal) is a postive apportunity for Iraq to buy food and medicine...but the main goal is ending the embargo completely," he said.
He also attacked the Russian government, blaming it for delaying enhanced ties with Baghdad.
"Iraq is ready to improve bilateral relations but Russia is delaying that," he said.
He said his party encouraged the establishment of a joint Iraqi-Russian company called Babylon in order to export foodstuffs, medicines and construction materials to Baghdad.
Zhirinovsky visited Iraq twice in 1995. Last October he was one of the figures invited to attend the referendum held on Iraq's presidency, which extended Saddam's term of office for seven more years.
Zhirinovsky polled only six percent of the vote in the first round of Russia's presidential elections.
Russia, supported by France and China, all permanent members of the U.N. Security Council, want a gradual easing of the sanctions on Iraq.
NOTE - Totoku Electric Co Ltd makes electronic machinery and parts.
Madison Sports & Entertainment Group Inc said on Tuesday it has named Kevin Michael Ward co-chairman of the board of directors and has accepted the resignations of Anthony Joffe and William Radcliffe as board members.
The company said it elected Ward, Walter Shaw and Gary Langan Goodenow as new members of the board. Ward will share the duties of chairman with current chairman, chief executive and president Joseph Radcliffe.
Ward is founder of KTL Financial Services Inc and is currently its president. He has also served as president of KTL Sports Management Inc, a wholly-owned subsidiary of Madison.
Transactions for SBIs bilateral totalled 240.85 billion rupiah -- Jakarta newsroom +6221 384-6364.
PT Tambang Timah closed at $16.575 per GDR in London on Tuesday. It recorded the day's low of $16.575 and the day's high of $16.675. Volume was 40,000.
It closed at $16.275 on Monday.
One Global Depository Receipt represents 10 common shares.
A number of major Queensland projects including the Brisbane-Gold Coast rail link are under threat as the state scrambles to overcome an unexpected lashing in the federal budget, Premier Rob Borbidge said.
Borbidge said his government would have to do some swift recalulations for the upcoming state budget to make up a "A$250 million shortfall".
Speaking to Reuters in New York where he was meeting with business and banking officials, Borbidge said the states had been particularly hard hit by the first coalition budget in 14 years.
"The budget is necessary to turn Australia around," he said. "But there will be substantial reductions to Queensland over and above what was forecast at the premiers' conference in terms of the better cities programmes and other cutbacks to services such as pathology and dental care."
"I'd say the federal cutbacks to Queensland from the Premiers' conference and the budget amount to a $250 million shortfall," he said.
The premier said he would have liked to have seen funding promises for exiting projects honoured, such as the dollar for dollar federal-state agreement on the Brisbane-Gold Coast link.
He said the state government will have to find $40 million "which won't be easy" if the line is to reach Robina as scheduled by the end of 1997.
The premier will get to work on the budget when he returns to Brisbane later this week.
After meeting with a number of leading banks in New York on Tuesday he was preparing to fly to the U.S. west coast for discussions with leading film studio executives.
Borbidge is attempting to build on Queensland's reputation as an attractive and economical sound site for major motion pictures.
He has also promoted the Queensland information technology industry while in the United States and urged investment, particularly in the mining sector.
He also told a business lunch in New York on Monday that he was "quietly confident" that Native Title issues "would be resolved either by the high court or legislative change".
The Public Advocate for the City of New York on Tuesday urged Mayor Rudolph Giuliani to sue the tobacco industry to recoup health care costs of smokers.
Public Advocate Mark Green in a letter to the mayor said the city should join with the group of states and the city of San Francisco in their efforts to obtain Medicaid funds from cigarette companies.
He said he was urging city action because New York State Attorney General Dennis Vacco has not filed such a suit.
Vietnam will this week put on trial two prominent intellectuals jailed last year in a crackdown on dissent, a rights group and dissident sources said on Tuesday.
They said Le Hong Ha, a former high ranking Communist Party member, and Ha Si Phu, a leading academic, would face a court in Hanoi on Thursday on charges of disclosing state secrets.
The two men were arrested in November last year as part of a crackdown on dissent in the run-up to Hanoi's Eighth Communist Party Congress, which has held in late June.
Phu was said to have given an interview to a French radio station and to have distributed documents in which he criticised the Hanoi government.
Le Hong Ha had been expelled from the Communist Party after voicing support for Hoang Minh Chinh, another leading dissident.
The arrests of the two men were criticised at the time by international human rights groups that accused Hanoi of placing itself in violation of international laws.
The Paris-based Alliance Vietnam Liberte said in a statement on Tuesday that the case was being watched closely by several organisations in Europe and North America. It called for independent observers to be allowed to attend the court hearing.
Official confirmation of the trial was not immediately available.
The charges against the two men fall under article 92 of Vietnam's Penal Code and allow for jail terms of between two and seven years. In serious cases, however, the jail term can be extended to a maximum of 15 years.
Property and gaming concern Belle Corp said on Tuesday it bought an additional 20 percent stake in Pacific Online Systems Corp with the acquisition of GTech Corp's stake.
This brings its total interest in the lottery project to 35 percent, it said in a disclosure to the Philippine Stock Exchange.
The U.S.-based GTech Corp. was the supplier of equipment to Pacific Online.
Pacific Online is also owned 25 percent by Kuok Philippine Properties Inc, 20 percent by Tanjong PLC of Malaysia and 30 percent by Abacus Technologies.
South Korean students fled a Seoul university building on Tuesday, ending a violent seven-day occupation of the campus in which they had demanded unification with North Korea, witnesses said.
Hundreds of students streamed out of the back door of the science block where they had been holding riot police at bay with gas cylinders and dangerous chemicals seized from laboratories, witnesses said.
It was not clear whether any students remained in the building, but witnesses said resistance on the campus now appeared to be over.
Many of the students raced into narrow alleyways surrounding the university and clamboured over rooftops to try to evade riot police. But some gathered on a main road and confronted riot police with rocks and iron bars.
Brazil exported an average of $206 million of goods per day in the third week of August, said Mauricio Cortes, secretary of foreign trade at the Ministry of Industry and Commerce.
In the first two weeks of the month exports totalled $1.468 billion, with a daily average of $209.7 million.
Crude oil production from Australia's offshore 110,000 barrels-per-day (bpd) Cossack field has been cut back to around 90,000 bpd and could fall further for several weeks, industry sources said on Tuesday.
One scenario suggests production could drop to 50,000 bpd through the last three weeks of September, they said.
The field is not expected to be back at full production until October, the sources said.
They said the main problem behind the cut back was technical difficulties handling associated gas, which is normally exported into the regional gas grid.
Sources said the production has been cut back since last week but might have to be cut back sharply in order to deal with the gas problem and other more minor problems.
One source said the field has managed to deal with the problems for some time but it has now got to the point where corrective measures are needed.
Equal partners in the field are Woodside Petroleum Ltd., Japan Australia LNG (MiMi) Pty Ltd and units of The Broken Hill Pty Co Ltd, British Petroleum Co Plc, Chevron Corp and Royal Dutch/Shell Group.
In mid July, Woodside said regular maintenance work would be carried out on the field in early August.
Davenport & Co. said it won $12.890 million of Virginia Housing Development Authority, various multi family housing bonds, with a true interest cost of 5.694 percent.
Qantas Airways Ltd has begun a regular air cargo service into China with the opening of a new route to Shanghai, the airline's regional general manager freight, Peter Barry, told Reuters.
Up to now Qantas had been hamstrung from carrying air cargo to and from the capital Beijing because of weight restrictions on the aircraft used, he said in a telephone interview from Singapore.
The new service is using an extended range Boeing 767 allowing six to eight tonnes of air cargo plus passengers to be carried between Sydney, Shanghai and Beijing.
The first flight to Shanghai left Sydney on Tuesday August 20, Barry said.
"We're pretty excited about because whilst it's only two flights a week, we see it as the first step of our growth in China. Business prospects are pretty healthy.
"Like everywhere else in Asia at the moment we think it's on a downward turn to a degree compared to what it has been but we think there are still pretty good opportunities," he added.
"Up to now we have carried basically zilch. Now we see an opportunity to let rip and we are quite looking forward to that. I would imagine after about a month we will be geared up and see some pretty good revenue coming out of it," Barry added.
Halling, the 6-4 favourite, blazed his way into the turf history books on Tuesday, winning the group one Juddmonte International for the second year in succession.
Halling became the first horse to win both the International and Sandown's prestigious Eclipse Stakes twice.
Ridden by champion jockey Frankie Dettori, Halling led all the way in the 10 furlong (2-km) test and stormed home three lengths clear from Royal Ascot and Goodwood winner First Island (3-1), the mount of Michael Hills.
Bijou d'Inde (4-1), ridden by Jason Weaver, stayed on well to finish third of the six runners a further one and a half lengths away.
Billed as the race of the year so far, the huge crowd were not disappointed as Dettori steered Halling home. Twenty years ago Dettori's father Gianfranco captured the race on Wollow.
"It's great to emulate my father. Halling has got everything -- pace and stamina," Dettori enthused.
"When I asked him to quicken he changed his legs and took off. I took one look round but by then the others were finished."
Halling is a five-year-old and this is probably his last season, said Godolphin's racing manager Simon Crisford.
"He will probably have one more run in either the (Newmarket) Champion Stakes, the Prix de l'Arc de Triomhpe or Breeders' Cup Turf."
An unexpectedly large drop in imports helped narrow the United States deficit in goods and services in June, analysts said on Tuesday.
The U.S. June trade shortfall shrank 23.1 percent to $8.11 billion compared with a downwardly revised gap of $10.55 billion in May, the Commerce Department reported earlier today.
Analysts polled by Reuters had expected an average $9.4 billion gap for June compared with an unrevised $10.88 billion deficit in May.
U.S. imports fell 3.3 percent in June to $77.82 billion, while exports droped 0.3 percent to $69.71 billion.
A slump in auto imports was particularly pronounced, economists said.
Imports of cars and car parts fell to $10.79 billion in June from a revised $11.48 billion in May.
Analysts noted that U.S. retail sales fell 0.5 percent in June, the largest monthly drop since February 1995.
"Retail sales fell in June so we may be seeing an immediate reaction on the import side. It's unusual to see such a quick reaction," Rothfield said.
"The numbers suggest the bite from the higher dollar is not as vicious as some might suspect," said Sally Kleinman, vice president and domestic economist at Chase Securities Inc.
The mild fall in export growth in June was partly due to sluggish economies in Europe and Canada, analysts said.
"Exports fell by 0.3 percent but the level is still fairly healthy. There's no cause for alarm on the export side that a stronger dollar may be starting to bite into our foreign export markets," Rothfield said.
Lower oil prices also helped shrink imports in June, analysts said. The cost of oil product imports dropped to $5.33 billion in June from $5.93 billion in May.
The U.S. import price index, which had been growing at a good clip earlier in the year, fell 1.2 percent in June, analysts said.
"A lot of that is due to lower fuel prices but there's some concern we've seen the bottom in fuel prices and they're going to start either staying where they are or pick up again," Rothfield said.
Bids from primary dealers must be with the Riksbank by 0800 GMT on August 20, the Riksbank said.
The bank said the lowest accepted volume is 200 million crowns and the highest accepted volume 40 billion crowns.
The Riksbank last lowered the repo rate a week ago, on August 13, when it trimmed off another 15 basis points.
It was the 17th cut so far this year.
The repo rate, which is the bank's key tool for controlling money market liquidity, began the year at 8.91 percent.
The other two elements of the central bank's interest rate corridor, the deposit and lending rates, are currently set at 4.75 percent and 6.25 percent respectively after a 50 basis point cut on August 15.
Middle Eastern crude tanker rates were steady again on Tuesday with an upwards bias in a busier market, shipbrokers said.
ULCCs and VLCCs found employment both east and west. Mobil was seen taking a ULCC to the Red Sea, two VLCCs were fixed to Asia, Kuwait Petroleum took a VLCC to the US Gulf and two VLCCs were chartered by Engen and Shell to South Africa.
Brokers noted several fixtures done into South Africa. Shell chartered the Golden Fountain to carry 260,000 tonnes and Engen fixed 290,000 tonnes on the New Victory.
"We've also seen today an enquiry by BP South Africa to take a VLCC from the Middle East to Durban," said one broker.
In the inter-UKC sector, rates rose marginally with 80,000 tonners taking W102.5-105. Dow chartered a Lundqvist tanker at W105.
For the second consecutive day, fixing in the Mediterranean was poor. Brokers continued to cite the tail end of the public holidays in the region last week.
By mid-afternoon, Trafigura's fixing of a 120,000 tonner on the Greek Fighter travelling from Novorossisk to Cuba was the only charter seen.
"Although there is almost no activity in the Med, rates remain firm with 80,000 tonners steady at W100-104," an Italian broker said.
Hurricane Dolly, approaching Mexico, was not affecting rates and all the key Mexican crude export ports were open.
The Bundesbank gave the following details of figures related to M3 money supply growth. All figures are on an annualised basis over the last six months.
The Bundesbank said in its statement that lending to the private sector had slowed from the first few months of 1996. It added that extended M3 money supply, which includes holdings abroad, had grown at an annualised rate of just under eight percent in the six months to June.
Medical appliance maker Guangdong Weida Group Co Ltd has received approval to list 13.875 million A shares in Shenzhen on August 23, the China Securities Bulletin reported on Tuesday.
The A shares were issued at 7.38 yuan per share in Jieyang city, southern Guangdong province, earlier this month, the bulletin quoted a company spokesman as saying.
Weida will list 1.125 million staff shares, offered at 1.60 yuan per share in 1994, along with the class A stock.
Weida's issue of the A stock has a projected price/earnings ratio of 12.51 times based on forecast net earnings per share of 0.59 yuan for 1996, the company said.
Following its recent A share offer, Weida's total share capital has been expanded to 58.875 million shares, including 30 million state shares, 13.875 million legal person shares and 1.125 million staff shares.
Weida plans to use the proceeds from the A share offer to expand its core business.
Weida said it has forecast after-tax profits of 34.95 million yuan for 1996, compared with 16.88 million yuan in 1995 and 11.32 million yuan in 1994.
Three hundred employees of car rental giant Hertz Corp. went out on strike just one week before the Democratic National Convention begins here.
More than 20,000 people are expected to descend on Chicago next week for the Aug. 26-29 convention.
Those wanting to rent Hertz cars will be able to do so despite the strike, said a spokesman for Hertz, the world's largest car rental firm and a unit of Ford Motor Co.
Hertz managers were staffing customer service counters, courtesy buses and vehicle service areas left abandoned Monday by members of Teamsters Local 781, said Hertz's Joe Russo.
If needed, Hertz was prepared to maintain interim staffing through the convention at the affected locations at O'Hare and Midway airports, as well as two downtown offices, he said.
"Our guess is the union saw some opportunity to put some pressure on Hertz with the Democratic National Convention in town and we fully anticipated that," Russo said by telephone from Hertz headquarters in Park Ridge, N.J.
The 300 employees have been working without a contract since December 1995. Negotiations apparently stumbled over work rules and the two sides are not far apart, Russo said.
"The strike came as a bit of a surprise yesterday because we thought this was an awfully attractive package," he said.
The union could not be reached for comment.
Olympic bomb suspect Richard Jewell passed a lie detector test in which he denied any involvement in the deadly July 27 attack, a polygraph expert hired by one of Jewell's attorneys said on Tuesday.
Former Federal Bureau of Investigation agent Dick Rackleff said 15 hours of polygraph tests with Jewell on Aug. 4 and 15 were "unquestionable and conclusive from the standpoint that he was not involved in any way with the explosive device."
Jewell's attorneys paid for the polygraph exam in an effort to show the security guard had nothing to do with the pipe bombing that left two people dead and more than 100 injured at downtown Atlanta's Centennial Olympic Park.
Jewell, 33, who was hailed as a hero in the immediate aftermath of the bombing, remains a suspect in the FBI's investigation.
"My conclusion was that he's totally innocent of any connection with that pipe bomb that went off in the park which he discovered," said Rackleff, who administered polygraph examinations for the FBI in Atlanta from 1979 to 1990.
Jewell did not know a suspicious backpack contained a bomb when he pointed it out to a Georgia Bureau of Investigation agent the night of the blast, Rackleff said.
Jack Martin, a criminal attorney for Jewell, said the results show "he didn't have anything to do with it."
"There's not one shred of physical evidence to connect him to the crime. He's passed a lie detector test. If there was any hard evidence he'd be arrested," Martin said.
Speaking to reporters in front of a federal courthouse, he said the FBI should apologise to Jewell for identifying him as a suspect. "The man deserves an apology. Three weeks ago the FBI came to his residence, gave a news conference in front of his residence and named him as a suspect," Martin said. "We're here on their turf and we're asking for that apology."
While working as a security guard at an AT&T Olympic pavilion near the park, Jewell discovered the green knapsack that contained the pipe bomb and helped police clear crowds from the area before it detonated.
"The next time somebody sees a suspicious package like that and they want to turn it over to law enforcement and do the right thing, I hope that they don't hesitate to act for fear that 'Wait a second, I'm going to be the suspect,'" Martin said.
He said Jewell's career in law enforcement had been "ruined" because he was named in the case. He remains in the apartment he shared with his mother, unable to leave without being chased by hordes of reporters and FBI agents.
NOTE - Hokkai Can Co Ltd manufactures cans for canned foods.
Poland's government on Tuesday said it planned new rules for the often-unruly private security industry following mounting public concern over violent incidents involving such firms.
Prime Minister Wlodzimierz Cimoszewicz told reporters the interior ministry would present a bill to cabinet this week.
"The law will specify conditions for granting licences... and on who firms can or cannot hire. Regulations will be passed to assure firearms are not used unacceptably," he said.
Concern has arisen notably after a night-time fight on Saturday at Terespol station on the Belarus border over control of a lucrative business escorting traders from the former Soviet Union on trains to a vast bazaar in Warsaw.
Hundreds of men, some with machetes and clubs, on Saturday attacked a bus carrying members of one of the firms involved.
They retreated after an off-duty policeman who was on the bus fired at the ground, wounding two attackers in the legs.
After the clash seven policemen were suspended on suspicion of moonlighting for the firm without permission.
Cimoszewicz said police should be banned entirely from working off-duty for private security companies.
Crime including robbery soared after the 1989 fall of communism, leading to a surge in private security firms.
According to Dorota Godlewska, deputy president of an employers' association in the industry, there may be about 4,000 to 5,000 licenced domestic firms operating in Poland, many run by former police staff, and four foreign companies.
These employ about 200,000 people, she estimated.
"No-one really knows how many firms there are. There are 12,000 issued licences, but not all these firms are operating," she told Reuters.
She said there were also numbers of cowboy outfits, some linked to criminal groups, operating without licences.
Her National Association of Employers in Agencies protecting Persons, Property and Detective Services, formed partly as an industry self-regulating body, has 150 members.
Godlewska said the association had long sought better official regulation of the business, but had already seen several drafts fail to pass through parliament in the past.
The police has also attracted scandals in recent months.
The loudest concerned a large group of masked men who trashed a night-club in Wroclaw, western Poland, earlier this year without realising they were being filmed by television.
The attackers later proved to be members of an elite police squad, apparently pursuing a private vendetta.
Cimoszewicz praised the police, who have this year halted a steady rise in some categories of crime, but added: "Against this background, incidents of police acting ambiguously or clearly breaking the law are especially glaring."
He said the police deserved strong support, but those policemen who behaved badly needed to be dealt with.
NEW YORK, Aug 20 - The dollar rose against the Japanese yen Tuesday after a sharp drop in the nation's trade deficit overshadowed fleeting disappointment that the Federal Reserve left interest rates unchanged.
The Commerce Department reported the United States trade gap shrank 23 percent in June as imports of merchandise and petroleum fell sharply.
While the trade shortfall with Japan rose 3.6 percent in June, the second-quarter deficit of $10.5 billion with Japan was the smallest quarterly deficit in five years.
The trend helped the dollar by decreasing the amount of dollars foreign exporters will need to sell for their local currencies.
"It was a good trade number," said Greg Pearman, chief foreign exchange dealer at Credit Commerciale de France in New York. "There was definitely one huge buyer today who right after the (trade) number bought a lot of dollars for yen."
After the release of the trade figures, the dollar climbed above 108 yen, where it stayed for the rest of the New York session.
The Fed's decision to hold interest rates steady only pressured the dollar temporarily in the afternoon because most traders had expected no change in monetary policy anyway.
"It's a fractional disappointment, basically," said Chris Turner, a currency strategist at the I.D.E.A. Inc. consulting firm. "We saw recently a survey of 37 primary (currency) dealers in the U.S. (and) not one of them were going for a Fed rate hike today."
In late New York trading, the dollar settled at 108.35 yen, up from 107.80 yen late on Monday. The dollar rose slightly to 1.4883 German marks from 1.4880 marks.
The dollar strengthened slightly against the yen in Asia after Eisuke Sakakibara, director-general of Japan's Ministry of Finance International Finance Bureau said in an interview with the Nikkei Finance Daily newspaper that even if the dollar rises above 110 yen, there is only a small chance of such a rise having an adverse effect on the Japanese economy.
Sakakibara has been dubbed "Mr. Yen" by the currency market because he is seen as the key person behind a rise in the dollar back up above 100 yen last year from its record low of 79.75 yen in April 1995.
The British pound rose to $1.5480 from $1.5455 late on Monday.
The dollar ended little changed at 1.2070 Swiss francs.
It inched up to Canadian $1.3733 from C$1.3728.
South Korea's debt-ridden Kun Young Construction Corp has agreed "in principle" to be taken over by unlisted Dongsung Construction Co Ltd, the domestic Yonhap News agency reported on Tuesday.
Kun Young had been in takeover talks with Cheiljedang, but Yonhap reported that discussions had broken down.
Brokers said the companies had disagreed over the evaluation of Kun Young's assets.
Kun Young's shares have been halted for trading because it defaulted on 1.26 billion won worth of promissory notes late Monday. It has until Tuesday afternoon to make the payments before facing bankruptcy.
The shares closed on Monday at 5,020 won.
Kun Young owed 550 billion won to financial institutions as of the end of July.
The Kenyan shilling posted marginal gains against the dollar on Tuesday in an active market, commercial dealers said.
The Central Bank of Kenya posted a shiling mean rate of 56.99 against the dollar from 57.03 on Monday. On the pound, it was posted at an average of 88.02 from 88.37 on Monday.
"The shilling posted marginal gains against the dollar supported by exporter sales which outstripped the demand by importers," a commercial dealer said.
"The shilling closed at 56.97/03 versus the dollar up from 57.00/10 at open," she said.
Another dealer added: "The shilling is expected to maintain its firm tone against the dollar in the near-term as we expect more inflows from the horticultural sector."
Dealers said overnight money market remained between 10 and 15 percent levels.
--Nairobi Newsroom ++254-2 330-261.
Russian flight controllers and ground workers plan to strike over a pay dispute from August 27, an air traffic controllers' union official said on Tuesday.
Gennady Borisov, aide to the president of the Federation of Air Traffic Controller Unions, said regional unions and some Moscow controllers were ready to strike.
Aviation unions called two strikes this year, but regional leaders declined to join, and the strikes were cancelled. Officials from state-owned Aeroflot and private airlines Transaero and Orient-Avia said their workers would not strike.
Borisov said air traffic controllers at Moscow's Domodedovo, Vnukovo and Bykovo airports were ready to strike this time, but those at Sheremetyevo international airport had not decided.
The workers want pay rises to take account of inflation, guarantees of job security and special payments for working in "dangerous conditions". Existing contracts expired on January 1 and negotiations broke down on July 31.
Federal Aviation Service head Gennady Zaitsev said last week that the unions' demands were "unrealistic", since federal civial aviation services had no cash to spare.
Interfax news agency this month quoted chief government negotiator Robert Suleimanov as saying the strike would fail because aviation workers would refuse to back the unions.
Aeroflot deputy chief executive Valery Okulov said his airline's staff would not participate in the action.
"All flights on August 27 and the following days will be made according to Aeroflot's schedule," Okulov said.
Togo's President Gnassingbe Eyadema named one of his supporters prime minister on Tuesday, after accepting the resignation of opposition politician Edem Kodjo who had held the post since 1994.
Officials said Eyadema, West Africa's longest serving leader, named Kwassi Klutse as prime minister in a decree. Klutse was minister of planning and regional development in the outgoing government.
Kodjo, a former Organisation of African Unity secretary general who accepted the post after elections in 1994, resigned on Monday, ending months of friction with Eyadema.
He said that three by-election wins by Eyadema's Togolese People's Rally (RPT), the latest on Sunday, had changed the balance of power in the 81-seat parliament.
Under the constitution, approved by referendum early in Togo's democratic transition in 1992, the prime minister must come from within the parliamentary majority.
Eyadema, an army general, was elected president in 1993 during Togo's turbulent transition to democracy in polls boycotted by the main opposition.
Kodjo and his Togolese Union for Democracy (UTD) were part of an opposition alliance that won a majority in the 1994 parliamentary elections until the Supreme Court annulled three of its seats citing irregularities.
Kodjo broke ranks with his allies in the main opposition party, the Action Committee for Renewal (CAR), and accepted the post of prime minister, citing the interests of national unity.
But relations between Kodjo and Eyadema had been strained in recent months. Kodjo spoke publicly of differences and Eyadema's supporters openly criticised the prime minister.
Eyadema's party won the three vacant seats -- two outright on August 4 and one in a runoff on Sunday.
If confirmed by the supreme court Sunday's result will leave Eyadema's party with 40 of parliament's 81 seats, but the support of a minor party and two independents following earlier defections gives him a comfortable majority.
The CAR boycotted all three by-elections. Some commentators had speculated the new prime minister would come from its ranks.
Sunday's by-election formally brought the first phase of Togo's democratic transition to an end.
A string of Francophone countries in West and Central Africa embraced democracy in the early 1990s after the collapse of Communist rule in Eastern Europe. Ivory Coast and Benin have already held their second wave of multi-party elections.
Presidential and parliamentary elections in Togo are not due until 1998 and 1999 respectively.
Lisa Raymond, runner-up last year at the Toshiba Tennis Classic, was bounced out in the first round this year when Sweden's Asa Carlsson dismissed her 6-4 6-0 on Monday.
"I haven't won that many matches this year, so this one feels good," said Carlsson, who improved to 10-14 this year with the 63-minute sweep.
Carlsson used a steady ground attack to keep the unseeded American on the run and off-balance throughout the straight-sets victory.
"I played very relaxed, I played confident from the baseline, and she never found a rhythm," the 21-year-old Swede said. "I'm happy."
Raymond had a career-high 17th world ranking last year but her ranking has plummeted to 49 along with her confidence.
"I wasn't playing with much confidence out there," Raymond said. "I couldn't get into a groove the whole time."
In other opening-round matches, Naoko Sawatsu of Japan beat Sabine Hack of Germany 7-6 (7-5) 6-3 and Shi-Ting Wang of Taiwan ousted Miriam Oremans of the Netherlands 6-1 6-4.
Sixteen-year-old sensation Venus Williams of the United States hammered out a 7-5 6-3 victory over German Barbara Rittner to gain entry to the main draw. She will face Katarina Studenikova of Slovakia on Tuesday.
Olympic silver medallist Arantxa Sanchez-Vicario and defending champion Conchita Martinez are the top seeds in the 28-player, $450,000 event, the final hardcourt tuneup for next week's U.S. Open.
The two Spaniards have first-round byes. Martinez plays her first match Tuesday and Sanchez-Vicario opens on Wednesday. (Corrects to reflect schedule change).
Tropical Storm Dolly headed toward Mexico's Yucatan Peninsula on Tuesday, dumping up to 10 inches (25 cm) of rain in its path, forecasters said.
They said Dolly was expected to spin over the Yucatan and into the Gulf of Mexico where it could increase to hurricane strength. If Dolly continued its current course and speed, it could threaten the Texas-Mexico border area near the Gulf Coast later this week.
At 7 a.m. EDT (1100 GMT), Dolly was 100 miles (160 km) west of the tourist resort of Cozumel, Mexico, with maximum sustained winds of 50 mph (85 kmh). Its exact position was latitude 19.1 north and 86.6 west and it was moving west-northwest at 14 mph (25 kmh). A tropical storm warning was in effect from Belize north to Progreso, Mexico.
"We think Dolly will come ashore in the Yucatan around noon," said National Hurricane Centre forecaster Mike Hopkins. "There should be some storm surge flooding along the coast, a lot of rain and pretty strong winds."
Forecasters said they were keeping a close eye on the storm in case it strengthened into a hurricane, with winds of at least 74 mph (125 kmh). "It's definitely within a realm of possibilities once it moves back into the Gulf of Mexico, where the water is warm. Anybody in the southern part of Texas should be paying attention to this storm," Hopkins said.
NOTE - Canon Sales Co Ltd is the sole distributor of Canon products in Japan.
NOTE - Urban Life Co Ltd is a real estate company specialising in condominiums.
The family of Marc Dutroux, main suspect in a Belgian child sex scandal, said on Tuesday they had begged the authorities to keep him in prison longer after his 1989 convictions for rape.
"It was known that he was a sick man," sister Valerie Dutroux told Belgium's VTM television. "To me he is no longer human. I was scared to death by him."
She said their parents had opposed Marc's early release and had "begged" authorities to keep him in jail.
Dutroux's mother Jeanine told De Morgen newspaper: "Just like the parents of Julie and Melissa, I cannot understand how they could have released him after what became clear in 1989."
Dutroux, a 39-year-old father of three, led police to the bodies of eight-year-olds Julie Lejeune and Melissa Russo, who had died of starvation early this year after being kidnapped in June 1995.
He has been charged with kidnapping Laetitia Delhez, 14, and Sabine Dardenne, 12, has admitted abducting An Marchal and Eefje Lambrecks and is suspected of involvement in several other disappearances.
There was a national outcry when it was revealed that Dutroux was a convicted child sex offender who had been released 10 years early in 1992 from a 13-year jail sentence.
Valerie, who has a three-year-old son, said she had chosen a school surrounded by walls to help protect her own child.
Marc Dutroux, described by neighbours as a bizarre but quiet man with few friends, was the oldest of five children but considered the black sheep of the family.
The family moved to the Belgian Congo in 1956, shortly after Marc's birth, but returned in 1960. His parents, both teachers, divorced soon after.
He was described as a problem child who had to change schools at least four times.
"Marc always had a problem with authority. He always had to be right and it was best not to contradict him," his mother said.
He was repeatedly caught red-handed by police for minor crime like breaking into cars but still managed to obtain a qualification as an electrician.
His mother said he fled home 23 years ago and severed all ties with the family.
His youngest brother committed suicide a few years ago. His two other brothers are mailmen.
Marc has a 12-year-old son Frederic from a first marriage and two children -- Andy, nearly three, and Celine, nine months -- with his second wife Michelle Martin.
Martin has been charged with being an accomplice in the abduction and illegal imprisonment of children.
She and Dutroux, who beat his first wife, had been living apart because she feared his rages.
Until his arrest, Marc had been living with Frederic. The two other children stayed with Martin.
He is officially unemployed but had been enjoying a health insurance benefit payment of 38,500 francs per month ($1,280).
"He presented himself as a sick and disoriented man, blaming his stay in prison for his bad state of health," according to a dossier on Dutroux delivered to the media by Belgian Justice Minister Stefaan De Clerck on Monday.
The dossier said that Dutroux has always maintained his innocence but carefully complied with the conditions set for his early release.
Judicial authorities have been criticised for insufficiently monitoring Marc Dutroux after his release from jail.
Austria's OMV AG said on Tuesday refining margins in Europe remained under intense pressure and forecast a growing trend towards cooperation and plant closures.
"Current refining margins are not only unsatisfactory, they are untenable in the long term," OMV director Tassilo Peyrer-Heimstaett told a news conference.
Wafer-thin margins have triggered a round of European refinery sales and closures over the past year. In February British Petroleum Co Plc and U.S. Mobil Corp announced they were merging their European downstream and refining operations.
"I would not be surprised to see further consolidation, maybe in southern Germany," Peyrer-Heimstaett said.
OMV said, based on its own model, complex refining margins had risen to $2.13 a barrel in the first half from a near all-time low of $1.45 at the start of the year.
Peyrer-Heimstaett did not foresse OMV entering into cooperation with another firm.
"In Burghausen our room for manouevre is zero. In Schwechat (cooperation) may be possible in theory," he said.
Burghausen processed 1.61 million tonnes of crude in the first six months. Schwechat processed 4.39 million.
Hundreds of Rwandan Hutu refugees fled Burundi on Tuesday for their equally troubled homeland despite assurances from Burundi's new Tutsi strongman Major Pierre Buyoya that he was opposed to any expulsions.
U.N. refugee agency officials said 500 Rwandans had arrived by 1200 GMT on Tuesday at Musange transit camp outside Butare. A convoy of trucks packed with a total of 1,200 more refugees was also heading from Magara camp on its way to Butare.
Magara is the biggest Rwandan refugee camp in north Burundi and once held over 45,000 people. After earlier expulsions, and the flight of some 7,000 refugees on Monday -- 24 hours after soldiers killed three refugees -- about 24,000 remain.
"The largest concentration of refugees will arrive this afternoon and evening," said Stephano Severe, head of the U.N. High Commissioner for Refugees (UNHCR) in Butare.
"We are expecting some 4,500 refugees today," he added.
The refugees accuse the Tutsi-dominated Burundian army of harassment and say they fear for their lives. To help them return to Rwanda, the International Organisation for Migration (IOM) has organised 91 trucks and buses.
Butare governor Atanase Samuhungu told Reuters he expected some refugees, accused of taking part in Rwanda's 1994 genocide, to face problems once they reached their original villages.
"The problems will be in the countryside when they try to reintegrate," Samuhungu said without elaborating.
Around two million Rwandan Hutus fled their homeland to Zaire, Tanzania and Burundi in 1994 after Tutsi rebels defeated the Hutu army and ousted the government, blamed for the genocide of up to one million Tutsis and moderate Hutus.
Burundi's new leader Buyoya pledged on Tuesday to protect the refugees after they complained of harassment and beatings from his army. Buyoya's spokesman said a team of investigators had been sent to northern Burundi. The spokesman also said Buyoya had also sacked the country's three most powerful military officers.
Buyoya's spokesman Jean-Luc Ndizeye told Reuters by telephone that the new president of Burundi remained committed to international conventions on the protection of refugees.
"The president expects refugees to stay where they are. He does not expect any movements at all today," Ndizeye said.
Shortly after the July 25 coup that brought him to power, Buyoya ordered an end to expulsions of Rwandan Hutu refugees.
Ndizeye said the latest exodus from the north was caused by panic after troops entered Magara on Sunday to search for arms.
He said Burundian army positions near Magara had come under fire on Saturday and Sunday forcing soldiers to move into the camp to search for weapons and ammunition.
He said any one found guilty of inciting refugees to leave against their will would be punished. "The president is not going back on his word to protect refugees," he said.
The exodus of Rwandan refugees picked up after troops killed three refugees at Magara camp. Army spokesman Lieutenant-Colonel Jean Minani confirmed on Tuesday that soldiers killed them but said they fired only after one refugee shot at them.
Besides the 24,000 refugees remaining at Magara, another 13,000 are at Rukuramigabo Camp in neighbouring Kirundo province, Paul Stromberg, UNHCR regional spokesman told Reuters.
Burundian authorities accuse the refugees of supporting Hutu rebels in a war against the Burundian army in which 150,000 people have died since 1993.
Halifax Building Society said on Tuesday its stock market flotation was on track for June 1997 and its members would find out their share in the new bank with the publication of the transfer document in early 1997.
The push towards conversion to bank status, plus the integration of rival society Leeds Permanent and insurance group Clerical Medical, means further acquisitions would be unlikely this year, spokesman Gary Marsh told Reuters in an interview.
He said the society always looked at merger opportunities but would not pursue any acquisitions if they risked delaying its flotation, first announced in November 1994.
The owner-members of the mutually-owned society -- its savers and borrowers -- will vote on the flotation plans in February 1997, Marsh said, with the flotation probably in June, provided it gets the go-ahead from its regulator.
Marsh said the integration costs of Clerical Medical were not likely to be great and that further job cuts as a result of the merger with Leeds Permanent were not expected.
It has already said it expects to cut 200 jobs in its head office by the end of 1997 as a result of the Leeds merger.
The merger with Clerical Medical is expected to be completed by the end of the year, Halifax said.
The society said it had changed its financial year end from January 31 to December 31 and its results for January 1996 were included in two of the reported periods, including a 88.2 million stg charge for merger and integration costs.
Overall, it made pre-tax profits of 649 million stg in the six months to June 30.
It said its retail banking arm took 8.0 percent of new current accounts, compared with a market share of existing stock of three percent.
It set up a new Halifax General Insurance unit in April 1996 to manage its general lines personal insurance and said it was gradually bringing in-house the responsibility for product design, premium collection and claims handling.
To develop a capital structure for its conversion to bank status, Halifax said it had issued 775 million stg of subordinated debt in recent months.
It said total assets rose to over 100 billion stg and its gross capital ratio rose from 7.99 percent to 8.64 percent.
Halifax said it had cut its cost/income ratio to 41.4 percent from 43.0 percent and said it took a 54 million stg charge for provisions, slightly up on the previous six months.
Belgian shares ended Tuesday with modest gains but still lagged other markets.
The Bel-20  .BFX index had to battle its way through resistance above 1,750. It ended 6.88 points or 0.39 percent higher at 1,760.15, virtually the day's high, with volume a fairly moderate 1.5 billion francs worth of Belgian shares.
Dealers could find no key reason for why holdings should have underperformed, citing just a "lack of enthusiasm".
Kredietbank was among the most heavily traded stocks in value terms, closing unchanged at 9,350 with 13,686 shares changing hands. "It remains one of the more expensive Belgian banks in terms of price-earnings. You're paying for quality, though it would have to drop 15 to 20 percent before I'd consider it a buy," one dealer said.
The prospect of Thursday's Bundesbank meeting is providing more suspense, amid growing hopes for a German repo rate cut, dealers said.
Thistle Hotels strong underlying profit growth and trading performance was welcomed as the ideal springboard for its forthcoming London flotation and share offer plans, said analysts on Tuesday.
He added that the 10 percent cut in the valuation for the hotel portfolio to 1.7 billion stg was also to be welcomed, despite resulting in a 87.8 million stg exceptional charge against profits and a 116.8 million deduction in the revaluation reserve.
"Thistle is using this opportunity (the float) to clean up its house and it's given the right signal to investors," said Kyriakidis.
Thistle chief executive Robert Peel had told Reuters earlier that the downward revision was in line with the rest of the sector and mainly hit hotels outside London.
Cerprobe Corp said on Tuesday it had revised its letter of intent for the acquisition of CompuRoute Inc after the deal was delayed by the unexpected death of CompuRoute chief executive George Shrime.
Cerprobe initially agreed to buy CompuRoute for 995,000 shares of Cerprobe common, which was trading on Tuesday up 5/8 at 10-3/8. The deal was to be accounted for as a pooling of interests.
Cerprobe said the deal will be accounted for as a purchase and is valued at about $11 million.
It said it anticipates that the transaction will be completed in the fourth quarter.
Cerprobe said, "We expect CompuRoute product sales could increase our annual sales by approximately 25-30 percent."
Cerprobe develops and manufactures products for testing integrated circuits and microelectronics components. CompuRoute designs and fabricates printed circuit boards and assemblies used in testing semiconductors.
Australian Treasurer Peter Costello said on Tuesday that the 1996/97 budget would set the conditions for another interest rate cut as long as it successfully passed through the senate.
He said the budget could be knocked around in the senate, which is currently controlled by left-leaning Green and Democrat senators who have expressed opposition to many budget measures.
"If we can get a good budget through the senate which addresses Australia's savings problems, we can set up the conditions for that," he said, referring to a possible rate cut.
Australian officials cut official interest rates by 0.5 percentage points to 7.0 percent on July 31.
Costello said it was possible the budget could remove some measures from the budget, which introduced measures to cut the underlying budget deficit by A$3.9 billion to a forecast A$5.65 billion in 1996/97.
"This is the once in a term, once in a decade opportunity to get it right," he said.
"There are a number of measures, I haven't actually quantified them, which require legislative change that the senate could defeat," he said.
"I hope it doesn't."
The Australian dollar dropped sharply and other financial markets sold off in 1993 when the Labor government struggled to get some of its budget cutting measures through a hostile senate.
Tokyo Gas Co Ltd, a power utility, said on Tuesday it would start operation of Japan's first power generator which combines a gas turbine with a refuse power plant on Wednesday.
The gas-turbine-combined-refuse power plant uses high temperature exhaust produced from a gas turbine to heat steam from a waste incinerator, a company spokeswoman said.
Compared to the standard refuse power plant, power generation is 15 to 34 percent more efficient. The plant in Gumma prefecture, north of Tokyo, has total capacity of 25,000 kilowatts and cost about six billion yen to build, she said.
SUMMARY- Scattered showers and thunderstorms in India, mostly dry in Pakistan. Highs 85-95F (29-35C) India, 88-102F (31-39C) Pakistan.
CROP IMPACT- Generally fair conditions across the major cotton areas of India and Pakistan at this time.
TODAY...Sunny to partly cloudy in the north. Variable clouds in the south with scattered showers and thunderstorms of 0.25-0.75 inch (6-18mm), 30 percent coverage. Highs 83-94F (28-34C) India, 85-100F (29-38C) Pakistan.
TONIGHT...Partly cloudy India with a few showers lingering. Mostly clear in Pakistan. Lows 68-76F (20-24C).
TOMORROW...Partly sunny skies with scattered afternoon showers and thunderstorms in India. Highs 84-95F (29-35C) India, 86-100F (30-38C) Pakistan.
OUTLOOK...Dry and warm Pakistan. Monsoonal showers and thunderstorms continue through areas of India. Temperatures average near normal.
The Bank of England said it provided the UK money market with a further 847 million stg of assistance at established interest rates.
Inco Ltd said Tuesday it has won permission to buy back up to 11.5 million of its common shares or 10 percent of the current public float.
The buy-back program is to start on Friday and end no later than August 22, 1997, the company said.
Inco will not need to borrow to finance the buy-back, it said in a release.
The main reason for the repurchase program is to help offset earnings dilution that stems from the C$4.3-billion acquisition of Diamond Fields Resources Inc, Inco said.
The long-awaited move will be welcomed by Inco shareholders, some of whom expressed concern about dilution when Inco won a takeover battle last spring to buy Diamond Fields and its massive nickel-copper-cobalt deposit in remote Voisey's Bay, Labrador.
The takeover is expected formally to close on Wednesday.
Once the scourge of international financial markets for its refusal to pay foreign debt, Peru has virtually completed a return to favour with its latest restructuring deals.
Yet the government may have bought back approval abroad at too a high price, with an ambitious repayment schedule likely to squeeze state coffers and prejudice social spending in coming years, analysts and critics warn.
"On the books, these restructuring agreements look great, but you have to remember that they commit Peru to paying far more than it ever has before," said a senior Latin American analyst on Wall Street, who asked not to be named.
"The cost of paying is going to be very tough on the people of Peru."
Peru now owes a total $32.445 billion foreign debt -- or about $1,350 per head in this country of 24 million people -- according to latest figures from the Central Reserve Bank.
Ten years ago, populist president Alan Garcia effectively suspended all foreign debt payments, hastening the Latin American debt crisis and guaranteeing Peru's pariah status in the international financial community.
But now President Alberto Fujimori's government is promising to pay on nearly all fronts.
"No one can say that Peru is not serious now about paying its debt," said Fujimori after his triumphant announcement in July of a rescheduling deal with the Paris Club of creditors.
This year, Fujimori's debt negotiating team has hardly stopped for breath, renegotiating terms on $7.4 billion debt in Paris, and is soon to close a complicated Brady Plan to restructure up to $10 billion commercial debt.
These deals followed the priority given to multilateral loan organisations, with whom Fujimori restarted payments in his first years of office after taking power in 1990.
With the exception of a few loose ends, such as its disputed debt to Russia, the completion of the Brady Plan will bring Peru full circle from its militant position of the 1980s.
The deals also remove obstacles to fresh credits and will enable Peru at the end of this year to issue new bonds on foreign markets for the first time in a decade.
While few now doubt Fujimori's good intentions to pay the debt, many do, however, recognise it will be far from easy to make good these commitments on a long-term basis.
Economists estimate combined debt payments will cost a total of more than $1.2 billion next year, rising steeply to between $2 billion and $3 billion by early next century.
This compares to an annual budget in 1996 of 22 billion soles ($9 billion), and a total gross domestic product of 149 billion soles ($61 billion), according to the Economy Ministry.
The Paris Club debt alone will cost Peru $496 million this year, rising to $1 billion by 2001, a peak of $1.07 billion in 2004, then gradually falling until the debt is paid off by 2015.
"The government is betting on being able to pay its foreign debt, but it was the only sensible bet the country could make. There was no other solution," said Oscar Jasaui, head of the Lima college of economists and president of Duff & Phelps del Peru.
"There is no magic formula. It depends on the performance of the economy, and it will be a day-by-day process."
Jasaui said the ability to pay would depend principally on boosting internal productivity and exports, and deepening the structural reforms underway since 1990.
"Chile managed to reduce its debt. Why not us? Peru has the potential to export as much as Chile. It is possible," he said.
Peru ran up a trade deficit of $2.115 billion in 1995, more than double the 1994 figure. But a nine percent rise in exports in the first five months of 1996 has helped bring the January-May deficit down 13 percent on the same period of last year to $786 million.
Despite Fujimori's slick and upbeat public presentations of his debt restructuring accords, not all are convinced they were as successful as he makes out.
The government "wanted better terms than they got with the Paris Club, undoubtedly," said one Peruvian analyst.
The analyst, who asked not to be named, added that Peru suffered in the July talks in Paris due, ironically, to the success of its economic reforms and its own self-projection as an emerging Latin American "tiger".
Former Central Reserve Bank president Manuel Moreyra said Peru set out in Paris to achieve a flat annual payment rate over 25 years rather than the increasing scale over 20 years finally agreed.
Foreign analysts added that Peru has exaggerated its success in the Brady Plan by inflating the total amount owed. While the government is talking of an approximately $5 billion reduction on $10.56 billion owned, market and other independent sources put the total Brady debt at nearer $8 billion, of which they estimate a 40 to 50 percent reduction.
At home, the most serious concern is how the debt schedule will affect efforts to tackle poverty and unemployment.
Despite the macroeconomic advances of the last six years, at least 60 percent of Peru's population still live in poverty, with some estimates as high as 80 percent, and around 55 percent are either unemployed or underemployed.
"To what extent are the annual quotas (for debt payment) compatible with still-unsatisfied social needs?" asked opposition legislator Manuel Lajo.
He is among those leading calls for the government to provide detailed projected income statements to show how it will cover both its debt obligations and the social spending programmes promised in last year's election campaign.
On the streets, few Peruvians are informed about the intricacies of the rescheduling agreements, but they give Fujimori credit for sorting out the perceived "mess" that his predecessor Garcia left the country in.
They are under no illusion, however, as to the enormous burden represented by the foreign debt bill.
"It's like a noose round the whole country's neck," said fruit-seller Marco Hermoza. "But who will be hung? Who suffers most? Not (Economy Minister Jorge) Camet, or Fujimori, but the poor, who have no chance of a future thanks to this damned debt."
The Ministry of Finance plans to offer 10-year Japanese government bonds (JGBs) through a price-competitive auction on Wednesday, a MOF official said on Tuesday.
The offer volume is likely to be one trillion yen, unchanged from the previous issue, traders said. The coupon rate of the new bond is likely to be set at 3.1 percent due to the recent rally in long-term JGBs, they said.
MOF last offered one trillion yen worth of 10-year JGBs on July 23 and about 60 percent of the amount was auctioned. The coupon rate of that issue was set at 3.3 percent.
Austria's largest industrial group, OMV, reported on Tuesday a four percent rise in first half pre-tax profit and said it was on target to repeat 1995's record result despite expectations of a weaker second half.
In a statement released ahead of a news conference, the oil and chemicals group said it posted a 1.56-billion-schilling pre-tax profit in the first six months, up from 1.50 billion the previous year. Net profit was flat at 1.24 billion.
Earnings before interest and tax (EBIT) eased six percent to 1.51 billion schillings, in line with analysts' forecasts of 1.25 billion to 1.7 billion.
"For the full year we expect a satisfactory group result which should match last year. The second half, like last year, will be characterised by weaker results," OMV said.
In 1995, the firm posted a record pre-tax profit of 2.09 billion schillings and 2.19 billion schillings EBIT.
Gas remained by far the biggest contributor to group earnings in the first half. EBIT was stable at 0.91 billion schillings despite a three percent decline in sales to 5.36 billion.
Chemicals earnings jumped 17 percent to 0.34 billion schillings, helped by stable prices and lower fertiliser costs. Sales dropped 38 percent to 2.63 billion schillings following the sale of 70 percent of OMV's Chemie Linz unit.
Exploration and production achieved a turnaround, posting a 0.11-billion-schilling profit after last year's 0.12-billion-schilling loss. OMV traced the upswing to higher crude oil prices and restructuring.
Marketing also returned to profit with an EBIT of 0.02 billion schillings after a loss of 0.06 billion in 1995.
In contrast, OMV's refining and plastics operations reported a poor performance.
Low petrochemical prices squeezed refining margins and lay behind a 76 percent drop in EBIT to 0.10 billion schillings. Plastics earnings dived 41 percent to 0.24 billion schillings, also hit by tight margins.
Finnish consumer prices are expected to be 1.5 percent higher year-on-year in December, a government appointed committee said in a report released on Tuesday.
The so-called incomes policy working group, comprising experts at the finance ministry, trade unions and employer lobbies, also said the earnings index would be 3.2 percent higher year-on-year in the final quarter of 1996.
The findings of the committee are used to determine whether index clauses in incomes settlements are triggered.
These are the leading stories in the Skopje press on Tuesday. Reuters has not verified these stories and does not vouch for their accuracy.
- Leading opposition parties negotiating possible coalition for the forthcoming elections, warning there are too many unknown elements due to government's slowness in reforming the electoral system.
- Government interference has made a mockery of the Macedonian Stock Exchange.
- Inter-ethnic tensions growing in Tetovo with the approach of the local elections. Opposition Albanian Party for Democratic Prosperity (PPDA) plans to take over the local government and create a crisis to destabilise the country and force the government to legalise the Albanian language and other ethnic Albanian institutions.
- The Macedonian government opts for proportional election system for councillors and majority model for the election of mayors. The long overdue local elections will be held at least 45 days after parliament adopts the new election law.
- Drug abuse in Macedonia is alarmingly high, even ten-year old children are recruited as future addicts.
- Skopje overrun by rats due to lack of city regulations for pest extermination.
-- Bear Stearns initiated coverage of Ventana Medical Systems Inc with an attractive rating, according to a market source.
-- shares rose 13/16 to 13-1/4.
Burundi's new Tutsi military strongman on Tuesday sacked the ethnically-divided country's three most powerful military officers, his spokesman announced.
Ndizeye said Buyoya had appointed Lieutenant-Colonel Vincent Niyungeko as new chief-of-staff, Lieutenant-Colonel Georges Muhorako as chief-of-staff of the gendarmerie and Lieutenant-Colonel Alfred Ngurunziza as head of military at the presidential palace. All are Tutsi officers.
"With the new changes the president has the right to choose who he works with. It's not a question of competence or incompetence. It's just to show that President Buyoya has a free hand," Ndizeye added.
Analysts said the dismissals of the hardline and powerful officers may be a move by Buyoya to placate regional anger over the coup that ousted civilian Hutu President Sylvestre Ntibantunganya. Neighbours have imposed an embargo on Burundi.
Bikomagu and other unnamed senior military commanders were implicated in a U.N. report on an attempted coup in Burundi in October 1993 in which Burundi's first freely-elected president, Melchior Ndadaye, a Hutu, was murdered by Tutsi soldiers.
Greek equities staged a rally to break resistance at 900 and close 2.30 percent higher with the market discounting political stability and a serious effort to tackle pending economic problems, fund managers said.
"I am optimistic," said a fund manager at a private investment company. "The bourse discounts the re-election of Costas Simitis, much desired political stability and economic measures to help the country join EMU."
Greek Prime Minister Costas Simitis will decide this week whether to call early elections next month, government spokesman Dimitris Reppas told reporters on Monday.
"The prime minister is considering all options, he will announce his final decision very soon, most probably within the week," Reppas said during Monday's briefing.
Based on Greece's constitution, elections must be held within a month from the time they are announced.
Interior Minister Akis Tsohatzopoulos summoned the director of the state computer election centre to discuss the election schedule, a source told Reuters.
The Athens general share index finished 2.30 percent, or 20.37 points higher at 907.92 from Friday's 887.55 close after opening at 888.68 points. Turnover was 9.02 billion drachmas on volume of 3.64 million shares.
"We have got at least another 100 points on the upside," the fund manager said. "Investors are hesitantly coming back and turnover is up with more attention paid to large caps such as OTE, and National Bank of Greece ."
Gainers led losers 184 to 37 with 16 issues unchanged on 237 traded. Banks gained 2.43 percent, industrials ended 1.25 percent higher with construction rising 2.47 percent. Small-caps ended with gains of 1.13 percent at 81.23 on the parallel market index.
The Merrill Lynch call spread warrant on OTE with a strike price of 3,800 drachmas was quoted at 511-529 at the close. Shares of OTE telecom, the underlying, ended sharply up at 3,845 drachmas.
The recently launched Merrill Lynch stock index call warrant based on a basket of 23 shares was quoted at 201.70-212.30 drachmas. It expires on January 9 1998 with a strike price of 1000. It was in the money at 1005.2.
The Morgan Stanley Hellenic Blue Chip Warrant, which has a strike price of 100 marks, was quoted higher at 3,111-3,444 drachmas at the close.
Terrified civilians flooded out of the Chechen capital on Tuesday after a top Russian military official threatened to use planes and heavy artillery to drive separatist forces from the city.
The refugees, many of them with little more than the clothes in which they stood, said Russian planes had started bombing the town, much of it already in ruins after attacks at the start of Russia's campaign to crush Chechnya's independence bid.
"The whole city is on its way out," said Nina Madayeva, who said 12 planes had bombed Grozny's southwestern Chernorechye district overnight. "We've been in a basement for 14 or 15 days and couldn't stand it any more."
Konstantin Pulikovsky, Russia's acting commander in Chechnya, said his forces had begun artillery attacks on rebels in Grozny and would bomb the city if needed to drive them out. But he denied that bombing had already started.
With the region on the brink of all-out war and President Boris Yeltsin reported to have gone on holiday, arguments broke out in Moscow over who was running policy on Chechnya.
Russia's influential Security Council, whose secretary, Alexander Lebed was put in charge of resolving the conflict last week by Yeltsin, cast doubt over the authenticity of the president's latest orders on the region.
A Security Council statement said Yeltsin did not appear to have been involved in drawing up the order to retake Grozny from the rebels, which carried a facsimile of his signature.
It said carrying the order out would ruin peace efforts undertaken by Lebed and wreck a ceasefire deal he agreed with the separatist leaders.
"This would mean in fact the beginning of a large-scale military operation involving aviation and artillery, which would naturally lead to heavy losses among federal troops, massive deaths among the civilian population...and a justified burst of resentment in the country," the statement said.
The presidential press office said Yeltsin had left for Valdai, some 350 km (220 miles) northwest of Moscow. But an official in the Novgorod region where Valdai is located said they knew nothing about the visit.
Lebed and rebel leaders agreed last week to arrange a truce to allow peace negotiations to resume in a region racked by conflict which has cost tens of thousands of lives in 20 months.
Pulikovsky, who signed the ceasefire order on Saturday, accused the guerrillas of using the truce to dig in in the regional capital, much of which they seized two weeks ago.
"I see force as the only way out of the situation in Grozny," he told Interfax news agency.
Rebel chief-of-staff Aslan Maskhadov appealed to Kremlin security chief Alexander Lebed, who has held talks with the rebels and opposed the use of aircraft, to rein in Pulikovsky.
Yeltsin's special envoy to Chechnya should "use all of his influence to stop the approaching madness", Interfax quoted Maskhadov as saying.
Itar-Tass news agency said Lebed would travel to Chechnya on Wednesday -- his third visit to the region in just over a week. Tass said Lebed remained committed to a peaceful solution to the Chechen conflict.
The rebels swept into Grozny on August 6, seizing key buildings and trapping Russian soldiers in their checkpoints and in the central government complex.
Pulikovsky, who on Monday gave civilians 48 hours to leave before he unleashes an all-out bombardment, said on Tuesday he was determined to drive the rebels out.
He said he was sure of the backing of Russia's leaders and was acting "in the interests of the state".
The following Australian economic indicators and events are scheduled for this week.
				  CAPEX     Car Reg.
Vermont on Tuesday said that its unemployment rate in July edged up one-tenth of a percentage point to 4.2 percent, the third month in a row that the gauge has risen, but the state dismissed the latest rise.
"The increase is modest, however, and fundamental labor market conditions remained unchanged," said Susan Auld, the commissioner of Vermont's Department of Employment and Training, in prepared remarks.
Out of a total labor force of 323,100 people, approximately 309,500 people were working in July.
In June, when the unemployment rate stood at 4.1 percent, about 13,100 people were employed out of a total workforce of 321,900.
In July 1995, when the unemployment rate was 4.3 percent, there were about 305,300 people working out of a total labor force of 319,000, the state department said.
Unemployment rates for Vermont's 13 labor markets ranged from as low as 1.7 percent in Hartford-Lebanon to as high as 6.7 percent in Newport. These data, unlike the preceeding numbers, were not seasonally adjusted.
Patlex Corp's shareholders on Tuesday approved a previously announced reorganization of the company into a new holding company to be called DBT Online Inc.
The new holding company will be traded on the Nasdaq under the symbol, "DBTO."
Under the terms of the reorganization, holders of Patlex common stock will receive one share of DBT Oncline stock.
Under the terms of the merger, holders of Database Technologies shares will receive about 2.95 shares of DBT Online stock for each DBT share.
SIMEX Euroyen futures gave up some of their recent gains to end lower in choppy trade on Tuesday as players awaited the outcome of the Federal Reserve's policy-making meeting later in the day.
Both ends of the Japanese yield curve have been underpinned recently by expectations that the Fed will not hike U.S. interest rates, potentially placing Japanese rates on hold too.
After trading to a high of 99.18, December Euroyen finished at 99.14 against its CME close at 99.15. Volume was relatively low at 10,340 contracts.
"It was nervousness creeping in from people who are long," said a dealer with another U.S. institution. "These levels are getting a little unrealistic. They're discounting no rate change for the foreseeable future."
Eurodollar futures were practically static as players held back ahead of the FOMC, due to begin at 1300 GMT.
December Eurodollars finished unchanged from their IMM close, at 94.20. March was also unchanged, at 94.10. Turnover for both months was a mere 12,100 lots.
Dealers said the market had completely priced in the lack of a rate hike. "Eurodollars can't really go up from here. The maximum upside is 10-20 points while they could fall by 50-70 points, so I'd rather bet on the short side," said the trader.
The United States indicated on Tuesday it intended to prosecute three Cubans who hijacked a plane last Friday to flee their homeland and whose return was demanded by the Havana authorities.
State Department spokesman Glyn Davies also said he knew of no plans to repatriate a fourth Cuban who hijacked another plane in a separate incident last month.
In Friday's incident the hijackers forced the pilot of a small plane used for tourist trips to fly towards the west coast of Florida, where the aircraft ditched in the Gulf of Mexico. After being rescued, the hijackers asked for asylum, while the pilot said he wanted to return home.
Davies said the pilot was in the custody of the Immigration and Naturalisation Service assisting an investigation into the incident.
But he said the United States was "working to facilitate his return to Cuba, and that may occur in the not too distant future".
"We want very much to develop a case against the hijackers," Davies said. "One of the reasons that we brought the pilot to the United States (was) to see if he can't help us develop a case against these three, so that we can prosecute them."
Cuba said on Tuesday U.S. failure to hand back the three, as well as the man involved in last month's hijacking, could jeopardise existing immigration accords between the two countries.
In the earlier case, a former interior ministry officer, Jose Fernandez Pupo, hijacked a Cuban commercial plane at gunpoint July 7 and sought asylum in the U.S. Guantanamo Bay military base.
Davies said U.S. authorities were still questioning Fernandez Pupo. "I don't know of any plans to repatriate him to Cuba," he said. "If we can develop a case, then we can prosecute the individual ... sometimes these cases take a while to develop," he added.
The Estonian government on Tuesday ruled that plans for the privatisation of the energy firm Eesti Energia and state-owned oil shale mines must be ready by the end of October this year.
The economics ministry has been working on the best way to privatise the companies, which have attracted Western interest, but no deadline has been set.
"So far there has been restructuring in Eesti Energia and the Estonian oil shale mines company," Justice Minister Paul Varul told a news conference after a cabinet meeting.
Varul, standing in for absent Prime Minister Tiit Vaehi, said ministers differed on how to carry out the privatisation of the companies.
"The main debate was on what parts of Eesti Energia to privatise and what part to leave to the state," Varul added.
The government has already signed a letter of intent with U.S. firm NRG Energy, part of Northern States Power, which is drawing up plans for the energy firm's privatisation.
But other Western firms are reported to be interested in the privatisation, including Swedish  Vatenfall, Finnish  Imatran Voima Oy and German  Preussen.
Mazda is using a foreign celebrity to revamp its image in Japan, and has chosen its very own president Henry Wallace for the job.
Wallace, a famous figure in Japan as the first foreigner to head a major Japanese firm, is to star in Mazda's new advertising campaign.
The 50-year-old Wallace will appear in full-page Mazda advertisments in five major Japanese newspapers on Thursday.
"We aim to elevate our image through this ad campaign," a Mazda spokesman said on Tuesday.
Mazda broke with corporate tradition by putting a foreigner in the driving seat and is doing so again with its new sales promotion -- it is rare for a Japanese company to use photos of its top management in a campaign to sell its merchandise.
The ads will have a full picture of Wallace standing to the left and his comments about the company on the right.
Wallace has become something of a celebrity in Japan after being appointed president at Mazda, Japan's fifth largest carmaker, in June.
Seconded by Ford several years ago to help turn around the troubled Japanese automaker, Wallace was given the top spot when Ford increased its equity stake in the company to about one-third.
The new president comes originally from Edinburgh, Scotland, and has been employed by Ford for 25 years. He first joined Ford's British operation.
Mazda decided to use Wallace in its ads as the result of a survey showing that Japanese found him likeable and impressive, the spokesman said. The survey also showed that they had high expectations for him to succeed in running the distressed company.
Mazda has been struggling with poor demand for most of its cars and has been in the red on a group net basis for the past three years.
The losses were the result of a number of errors in assessing the market, analysts say.
The company failed to profit on a sales boom in medium-class luxury cars after coming into the market too late, and saw operating costs soar by trying to expand its domestic sales network too much, they say.
At the same time, the strong yen cut into its profit on sales of its cars in the United States and other overseas markets.
Mazda is hoping a straight-forward approach in its ad will distinguish it from its rivals and capture the attention of consumers.
The ads displaying Wallace will carry a slogan "Practical car, Enjoyable car, That's Mazda."
Mazda will be promoting its new compact recreational vehicle, the Demio, which will debut in Japan on August 26.
Compact recreational vehicles are one of the hottest selling models for all Japanese automakers.
Mazda has had a relationship with Ford for many years. In May, Ford raised its stake in Mazda to 33.4 percent from 25 percent which gave it control of the management.
Ford sent Wallace to Japan to represent its interests in Mazda two years ago.
"If successful, Wallace may continue appearing in Mazda's future ads," the company spokesman said.
German shares were rangebound in bourse trade on Tuesday, with the highlight of the day a shifting of interest from the chemical sector into utility stocks.
The 30-share DAX ended the day down 2.50 points at 2,560.26 points after sticking in a seven-point range. The IBIS-DAX, tracking electronic trading during the day, closed slightly better at 2,562.12 points.
The big three chemical groups took the biggest battering, while utility shares benefited from interest partly generated by Viag AG's forthcoming six month earnings report. After the close of the electronic bourse trading Viag reported operating profit up 10 percent during the first half of this year.
The broader market was lacklustre, dealers said, and shrugged off a Bundesbank report showing slower July M3 growth, which is viewed as boosting the case for the central bank to cut the securities repurchase rate, or repo, on Thursday.
Chemicals were sold to make way for utilities. In IBIS trading Hoechst lost 31 pfennigs to 50.80 marks, Bayer declined by 5 pfennigs to 52.35 marks while utility Viag rose 6.75 to 569.75.
Utilities have been underperforming during the last two months, but are bottoming out now, traders said.
"The upswing in utilities stocks is an answer to the recent weakness of those shares", one dealer said.
Dealers said the moderate M3 growth was in line with expectations and thus failed to generate momentum for the stock market.
However the market will continue to look for guidance on the interest rate front ahead of the Bundesbank meeting Thursday, dealers said.
The result of the FOMC meeting in the U.S. due early in the European evening was expected to provide further clues.
Microsoft Corp expects Sprint Corp's new Internet access service to offer the software company's Internet Explorer as an option, a Microsoft official said Tuesday.
Mike Ahern, a Microsoft group product manager, said he hoped an agreement between the two companies could be announced soon. He declined to discuss details.
Earlier Sprint said it would offer Netscape Communications Corp's Navigator browser for customers of its new service.
But Sprint did not say the relationship was exclusive, and Ahern said he expected an arrangement that would allow customers to choose which browser they use.
Microsoft and Netscape both launched new versions of their Internet browsers this week, marking a new phase in the rivalry between the two companies.
US telecoms giant has suffered a setback with the announcement that the man widely expected to take over the company, Alex Mandl, is to leave to take up a position with a new company which aims to capitalise on the opening up of the market for local calls. The search for a replacement is expected to see an outsider brought in. Mandl will head a new company, Association Communications, which will aim to provide businesses in a range of U.S. cities with services including Internet access, data communication and video conferencing.
Shares in EMI Group have risen by a greater degree than expected following the demerger of Thorn EMI. The increase in share price values the group at some 6.39 billion stg. Observers at ABN Amro Hoare Govett are reported to be expecting the EMI Group share price to reach 15 stg. There remains some speculation concerning a possible bid for the company by a US entertainment group, possibly Viacom, Seagram or Walt Disney.
The British government has let it be known that it will not sign an open skies deal with the U.S. based on an accord reached between the U.S. and Germany recently, claiming that this deal favoured the U.S. Talks resume next week between U.S. and UK authorities on an aviation accord which both parties are keen to secure prior to the U.S. presidential elections and which is seen as vital to the recently-announced plan for an alliance between British Airways and American Airlines.
Perpetual, a leading shareholder in life insurance company Refuge Group is reported to be threatening a planned merger with United Friendly, believing that the deal could leave shareholders in Refuge at a disadvantage. Neill Woodford, senior investment manager with Perpetual noted that he was giving consideration to voting against the plan. He also expressed concern about the speed with which the 1.46 billion stg merger plans have been drawn up.
A rise of 45 per cent in its interim pre-tax profits has been reported by catalogue retailer Argos. The figure of 31.8 million stg exceeded forecasts, triggering upgrades for its full- year profits. Meanwhile, the company also revealed plans to expand into the Dutch market, where it hopes to open its first store in 1998. Eventually it plans to operate 70 stores in the Netherlands.
At a meeting between management and union leaders involved in a worsening industrial dispute at the Post Office a warning will be delivered by chief executive John Roberts that a failure to secure an end to the strife could place in jeopardy the Post Office's commercial future. Finances could be particularly badly hit if the government decides in the face of continuing strike action to extend the suspension of the Royal Mail's monopoly on the delivery of letters.
The Home Office has delayed the implementation of a new computer system designed to maintain checks on criminals on probation and asked supplier Bull Information Systems to make changes to its design after staff complained about the unwieldiness of the technology. Confusion surrounding the use of the system, warn staff, could lead to information about potentially dangerous offenders being misfiled.
Thames Trains has become the latest of a number of privatised rail companies to have reached agreement with unions over wages and averted the threat of stoppages. There are reports that in private unions involved in the sector concede that the privatisation of the industry has actually led to an improvement in wages and conditions for staff now that the companies involved are free from government intervention. Unions hope to establish benchmark deals that can be taken up by others in the industry.
A report from the fund management division of Union Bank of Switzerland, PDFM, has found that pension funds in the UK are becoming increasingly willing to switch fund managers if they feel that their assets are not being exploited to the full. A poll of some 400 of the country's largest funds has found that over the past year 24 per cent have terminated contracts with managers after reviewing asset performances. In the U.S. the trend is even more pronounced, with 37 per cent of funds having changed managers at least once in 1995.
Britain's cable companies are reported to be considering making a new appeal to the European Commission to intervene in their dispute with BSkyB over the satellite company's pricing structure for programming. The companies believe that the rates being charged for the provision of some of Sky's most popular channels leave them little scope to offer subscribers better value services. The EU has looked previously at the situation and decided to leave a resolution in the hands of the UK authorities.
Argentine trade unionist rivals meeting to vote on a general strike call got into a shoot-out on Tuesday in which seven men were injured.
Television showed men in union caps taking potshots with handguns and home-made flares at a union sports center outside Buenos Aires where the unions' Central Confederal Committee was meeting for a ballot on action against the Peronist government's austerity measures.
The gunfight started after hundreds of truckers belonging to the hard-line MTA labor group tried to force their way into the debate and were blocked by officials from their much bigger long-time rival, the CGT union federation.
Hospital officials said two of the seven hurt had serious injuries, one in the chest and another in the leg.
The CGT, which led a 24-hour strike on Aug. 8 and wants a 36-hour strike next month, blamed the shooting on "outside groups who want to damage the image of the unions."
Some CGT officials openly blamed the truckers and the MTA, a dissident labor group dominated by transport workers which criticizes the CGT for being too close to President Carlos Menem and wants next month's strike to stretch to 48 hours.
CGT boss Gerardo Martinez refrained from blaming anyone, but apologized to "all the workers of our country" for the incidents and promised at a news conference the CGT leadership would resign if investigations showed they were to blame.
"I don't want to bear the responsibility for a single drop of my brother's blood," the burly construction union leader said.
MTA leader Juan Palacios alleged the CGT "orchestrated everything from inside ... to get the strike called off as ordered by President Carlos Menem."
"We are not delinquents; we are workers," said Palacios, who was at the meeting with 26 other dissident union leaders who make up just a 10th of the total of delegates.
The CGT rescheduled the strike ballot for Friday, but the success of any industrial action depends on the support of the transport unions, whose backing in the Aug. 8 strike helped bring much of Argentina to a standstill.
Unions say that stoppage was observed by 90 percent of workers, while the government termed it a 50 percent success.
The union violence plays into the hands of Menem. Stung by their storming out of talks with employers on unemployment, Menem says they are incapable of coming up with alternatives to austerity measures aimed at narrowing a budget deficit.
Leading Russian shares slipped on Tuesday with traders saying the trend was still unclear.
The Russian Trade System index of 21 leading issues fell by 0.72 percent to 182.02.
"This week really feels like a holiday week -- a lot of clients in London are on holiday and on the continent and in New York," said Martin Diggle from Brunswick Brokerage.
"Shares aren't really doing anything, because there aren't many clients who really want to do anything at the moment. Most of the market is trading in a vacuum."
The Russian Security Council, whose secretary is General Alexander Lebed, said on Tuesday that it doubted the authenticity of President Boris Yeltsin's latest orders on Chechnya.
But the news had very little impact on share prices, traders said.
"I think it's a story that people will be watching to see if it develops any further," Diggle said. "It's a little bit worrying, that headline."
Traders were uncertain about the possible course the market may take in the next few days.
"There are no flows to really shape the market," Diggle said. "I would not be surprised if we drifted around these levels in very, very thin volume."
Bobby Meshoyrer, director of sales and trading at IK Aton, agreed, saying prices were most likely to stick to current levels.
"I think in the near future everything will keep to current levels -- no one wants to sell cheap and to buy dear," he said.
At 1430 GMT Mosenergo was at $0.960 after $0.952 at Monday's close, LUKoil fell to $9.670 from $10.125, UES edged down to $0.0815 from $0.0829 and Norilsk Nickel slipped to $7.70 from $7.90.
Former government-owned bank reported a 13.8 percent higher full year net profit of A$1.12 billion. Analysts median forecast for pre-abnormal net profit was A$1.098 billion.
Building materials group due to report full year results. Analysts forecast a median pre-abnormal net profit of A$244 million.
Retailer due to report full year results. Analysts forecast a pre-abnormal net profit in the range of A$230 million to A$242 million.
Petrol refiner due to report half year results. Last year's net profit was A$11.95 million.
Budget changes to research and development concessions seen possibly affecting medical/drug research companies.
Interest rate sensitive stocks saw plenty of activity on Monday ahead of budget. Question is whether budget results were already factored in.
On Tuesday, Tony O'Reilly-controlled media group reported a 12 percent higher first half net profit of A$11.56 million after trading closed.
Sprint Corp said Tuesday that it sees its market share in the Internet service provider arena topping its position in the long-distance market, which it said averages 10 to 12 percent.
"We have an objective of fast growth and high share, higher than the approximate 10th share that we have in long-distance," Jim Dodd, vice president of Internet Access Services, said in an interview. "We think we can."
The communications company will first offer the service to 200,000 of its current long-distance customers to "test-drive" it for free before doing a nationwide launch in 60 to 90 days, Dodd said. The service is priced at $19.50 a month for unlimited use or $1.50 an hour, as the customer prefers.
Sprint plans to add content and high-quality service to give it an edge over other service providers, and offer long-distance and Internet package deals.
Sprint's service will initially support only the Netscape browser, but Dodd said the company is currently in talks with Microsoft Corp to include its Explorer browser as well.
Sprint is entering the general consumer market after its prime competitors AT&T Corp and MCI Communications Corp already have their services in place. But analysts said in the long run the unrushed entrance into the market is not likely to hurt the company.
Massick Colombo said the service may help Sprint retain customers in the long run, and expects only slight pressure on earnings in the short term as the Sprint gets the service up and running.
"I think it's important to have a full-service package," she said. "They have one of the most advanced data networks in the world."
Sprint is also planning to provide intranet packages for international businesses. Intranets are company-wide networks based on the Internet protocol.
"In the upcoming months you will see all sorts of integrated activity," Dodd said. "We've been in the Internet, in fact profitable and making money in the Internet business, longer than anybody."
The Bank of Portugal said there was no demand at its offer to inject 10 billion escudos of six-day funds into the money market in a variable rate securities repurchase tender.
It previously injected funds at an average weighted interest rate of 7.50 percent.
Standard & Poor's said on Tuesday it had assigned an A rating to 50 billion yen worth of yen/Australian dollar dual-currency samurai bonds issued by Walt Disney Co.
The bonds mature on September 9, 1999.
Foreigners turned net sellers of South African bonds once again on Monday, disposing of a net 33.52 million rand worth after buying 330.27 million rand on Friday, the Bond Exchange said.
Non-residents sold a net 241.98 million rand worth of South African bonds last week.
The rouble fell to 5,311 to the dollar on the Moscow Interbank Currency Exchange (MICEX) from 5,302 on Monday.
National Semiconductor Corp said Tuesday it was cutting its work force by 170.
National, which has 20,000 employees, said in June that it expected some layoffs as part of "cost containment" measures associated with the spin-off of new unit Fairchild Semiconductor.
At that time National said it expected to take a charge of $280-$320 million in the current quarter, in part to cover the cost of the work-force reductions.
Dick Wilson, vice president of human resources, said the measures were an attempt to cut costs as well as centralization and consolidation actions.
Shares of National Semiconductor were 1/4 higher at 15-7/8 in late afternoon trading on the New York Stock Exchange.
NOTE - Kansai Kisen Kaisha is a leading operator of coastal carriers.
Pakistani money market rates remained at high levels on Tuesday due to shortage of funds and are likely to remain on the higher side on Wednesday, dealers said.
"There was no respite in short-term rates as banks continued to cover their positions at the State (central) Bank of Pakistan discount level of 17.00 percent," one dealer at KASB & Co said.
Banks were seen approaching the central bank discount window as the market seemed to have closed short for another day, the dealer said.
Hi-Tech Pharmacal Co Inc said on Tuesday it received Food and Drug Administration approvals for two Thioridazines Hydrochloride Oral Solutions, both equivalent to Mellaril solutions manufactured by Sandoz AG's Sandoz Pharmaceuticals Corp.
Hi-Tech Pharmacal said the Thioridazine approvals should help the company penetrate the hospital and nursing care markets where these items are widely used.
Norwegian shares remained flat for a second consecutive session on Tuesday with the market continuing to lack firm direction due to a mixed bag of half-year results.
The Total share index closed at 820.18 points, a gain of 0.05 percent. Turnover amounted to 608.26 million crowns.
"Trade was slow with no direction today," said one dealer.
Metals producer Elkem posted a 33 percent rise in six-month pre-tax profits to come in above expectations at 598 million crowns.
But the company said it expected a weaker second half across all its markets and the share price dropped back from a high at 89.50 crowns to end at 87.50 crowns, a gain of 3.50 crowns on the day.
Energy group Hafslund and Norway's largest shipping company Bergesen are due to announce first-half results on Wednesday. Insurance company UNI Storeband and forestry group Norske Skogindustrier will post profits on Thursday.
Australian Prime Minister John Howard said on Wednesday that he hoped there would be another cut in official interest rates, but that the Reserve Bank was directly responsible for monetary policy.
"But I don't, nor does the Treasurer, direct these things, that's a matter for the monetary authority," Howard said.
The government announced on Tuesday it would make A$3.9 billon of budget cuts to produce an underlying budget deficit in the year to June 30, 1997 of A$5.65 billion.
Howard said he was hopeful the resignation of Labor senator Mal Colston and his subsequent election as an independent Senate deputy president with the support of the government would help the budget get through the Senate.
"He's become an independent and we certainly hope he'll support us on some things," he said.
"I don't expect he'll support us on everything."
Physical electricity prices for next-day delivery in the western U.S. were firm Tuesday, but power for deferred month deliveries were traded mostly lower, brokers and marketers said.
Next-day prices were bolstered by Bonneville Power Administration raising its posting for 16-hour power blocks for Wednesday delivery by two dollars to $17.50 per megawatt hour (MWh), market sources said.
Deferred month values were weaker amid a second-day of active selling, they said. "People are seeing these outer months are well overvalued," said a Houston trader.
A substantial decline in the natural gas market also pressured electricity prices lower, traders said.
NYMEX September Gulf Coast natgas futures were in the $2.060 area, off more than 12 cents per million British thermal units.
In the physical market, California-Oregon Border (COB) prices for firm, peak delivery were quoted at $16.00-$17.00 per MWh, up from Monday's $15.00-$16.00, market sources said.
September COB power for firm, peak delivery was assessed at $17.10-$17.90, up from Monday's $17.00-$17.40 range.
October COB, with similar delivery terms, was pegged at $15.50-$15.90, down from $15.75-$16.60 on Monday. Firm, peak COB for the 1996 fourth-quarter was valued at $16.90-$17.25, flat from Monday.
At the Mid-Columbia (Mid-C) point in Washington, firm, peak electricity prices for next-day delivery were quoted at $15.00-$15.50 per MWh, up from Monday's $14.50-$15.50.
September Mid-C electricity was pegged at $16.50-$17.10, down slightly from Monday's $16.50-$17.20.
Down at the Palo Verde (PV) switchyard near Phoenix, Ariz., next-day power for peak, firm delivery was valued at $21.00-$22.00 per MWh, near unchanged from Monday's range.
September firm, peak PV electricity was quoted at $20.75-$21.25, flat from Monday.
October PV electricity, with similary delivery terms, was assessed at $15.90-$16.10. Fourth-quarter PV prices was quoted at $16.30-$16.70, down from Monday's $16.90-$17.25 range.
Pacific Gas & Electric Co continued to hold power output from its 2,160 MW Diablo Canyon nuclear power facility at 75 percent of capacity because of a nearby wildfire in the Los Padres national forest.
"The target of the proposal would be to broaden the experimentation with working hours and to reach branch-specific employment agreements," SAK said. It gave no details.
The board of the 1.1-million mainly blue-collar member umbrella organisation -- Finland's biggest trade union group -- also decided to bring working hour agreements onto the agenda of the following round of incomes settlement talks due in the autumn of 1997.
"SAK will then aim at a working hour agreement which in a broader sense promotes job sharing," it said.
President Bill Clinton on Tuesday signs into law the first rise in the minimum wage in five years, giving the lowest-paid Americans a 90-cent raise but sweetening the pill for small businesses with tax cuts.
The bill, boosting the wage to $5.15 per hour, was a political victory for Clinton, who called for an increase when he campaigned for president in 1992, and his fellow Democrats, who forced it through over the objections of many Republicans.
The fact that both of the Republican-controlled houses of Congress passed the legislation with strong majorities reflects election-year imperatives, as few legislators are willing to go to the polls on Nov. 5 having voted against it.
The president plans to celebrate by signing the bill in high style, arranging an elaborate outdoor ceremony on the White House south lawn.
The bill will boost the wage, typically paid to unskilled workers in restaurants and small businesses, by 50 cents to $4.75 on Oct. 1 and by 40 cents to $5.15 on Sept. 1, 1997.
Although the legislation will raise salaries of many U.S. workers, in inflation-adjusted terms it will not even restore the wage to its level in April 1991, when it was last increased.
One administration official said that in constant 1996 dollars the wage stood at $4.89 in April 1991 and will only be $4.85 in September 1997 after the full increase is in effect.
Boosting the wage was supported by roughly 80 percent of Americans but bitterly opposed by conservatives who came into office in the 1994 election that gave control of both houses of Congress to the Republican party.
"Considering how resolutely anti-Clinton and ideological this Congress was, for one of its very few accomplishments to be a Democratic bill to increase the minimum wage is quite remarkable," said William Dickens of the Brookings Institution, a Washington-based private research organization.
The legislation, formally called the "Small Business Jobs Protection Act," was made easier for Republicans to swallow by adding a sweeping package of tax breaks worth roughly $22 billion over ten years and aimed mostly at small businesses.
Conservatives argue that raising the minimum wage, which was first imposed by the federal government in 1938, would cut jobs, hurt small businesses and raise prices as companies pass on higher labor costs to consumers.
"This needlessly destroys job opportunities and it does not do what it is supposed to do, which is help the working poor," said Mark Wilson, who specilizes in labor issues at the conservative Heritage Foundation think-tank in Washington.
Wilson estimates that the law would eliminate 200,000 job opportunites -- jobs either not created or jobs terminated -- because of the higher labor costs.
But other economists argue the negative effects of the increase will be minimal.
"(We) expect only a small increase in inflation -- about 0.1 percent," Wharton Economic Forecasting Associates wrote in a recent study. "Job losses will also be small -- the net job loss will be only about 20,000."
A rash of senseless killings and other violent criminal acts has shaken Sao Paulo's middle classes, which are increasingly being struck by drug-related crimes spilling out of city slums.
"CRIME - No one is safe," screamed this week's cover of Brazil's leading news magazine Veja. The warning was printed over a photo of 23-year-old college student Adriana Ciola, killed last week when assailants stopped outside a bar they had just robbed and fired randomly through a window.
Police in South America's largest city blame much of the violence on roaming bands of "crack" addicts who find students and the elderly an easier target than armed rivals inside Sao Paulo's sprawling shantytowns.
Poverty and the city's 16 percent unemployment rate also contribute to the problem. But authorities are at a loss to explain the degree of cruelty in much of the recent violence.
A 73-year-old attorney was critically injured this month when two men set him on fire for refusing to disclose the location of a safe. The assailants also played Russian roulette with his wife and burned her arms with a hot poker.
Two weeks ago, four men broke into a 61-year-old woman's house, locked her in the bathroom, searched for valuables and then set the house ablaze. The woman managed to escape serious injury.
Long accustomed to distancing themselves from rival city Rio de Janeiro's violent reputation, Sao Paulo residents are mobilising against a crime wave whose vicious nature is uncommon even by Rio standards.
"Violence is hitting the middle class and we want to mobilise residents and the authorities (to stop it)," said Carlos Eduardo Lima, an organiser of "Sao Paulo Reacts," a community drive begun on Monday to curb crime. Taking its name from an anti-crime drive in Rio last year, the Sao Paulo effort seeks to unite businesses, workers, schools and community groups to make streets safer.
Brazilians are not strangers to crime. Murder is the leading cause of death among men aged 20-29 and it accounts for about 38 percent of deaths among teens aged 14-19.
The Justice Ministry says 31 of every 100,000 Brazilians is murdered, compared to 20 per 100,000 in Mexico and 10 per 100,000 in the United States. Most of the violence takes place in slums at a safe distance from middle-income communities, but because it is striking more vocal groups crime is becoming a leading issue in the city's upcoming municipal elections.
The gruesome news accounts of torture and cold-blooded killings have renewed calls for stiffer sentencing of minors, who up to the age of 21 cannot be tried for murder. Some residents have even called for implementing the death penalty, a punishment frowned upon in most Latin American nations.
Standard & Poor's said the 1996/1997 deficit-cutting Australian budget delivered on Tuesday appears to reflect improvements in the country's fiscal health.
"It does appear, on the surface, to be a significant fiscal tightening," said Roger Scher, assistant director of Standard & Poor's sovereign ratings group.
Scher said he reserved judgement on a review of the current AA foreign currency rating pending further study of the budget. He said the trend could be positive, however.
"There are substantial spending cuts," Scher said, adding "improvements in public finances of this nature, that persist over the medium term, could only mean improvements in the commonwealth's creditworthiness."
Australia's new conservative government announced it would run a A$5.6 billion (US$4.4 billion) underlying deficit for the fiscal year to June 30, 1997.
The budget trimmed A$3.9 billion from hundreds of government programs in order to achieve the savings.
The projected A$5.6 billion underlying deficit is less than half the A$10.3 billion shortfall in 1995/1996.
The 1996/1997 headline result, which takes all figures into account, is a A$474 million surplus.
Paracelsus Healthcare Corp and Champion Healthcare Corp said on Tuesday in a joint statement that they completed a merger on August 16, 1996, that makes Champion a subsidiary of Paracelsus.
Each Champion share was converted into one Paracelsus common share and each share of Champion preferred stock was converted into two shares of Paracelsus.
Paracelsus issued 19.8 million shares of common stock in the merger, bringing the total shares outstanding to 54.7 million including 5.2 million from a recent public offering, the companies said.
Park Hospital GmbH, a German corporation wholly owned by chairman Dr. Manfred George Krukemeyer, owns 29,771,742 shares of Paracelsus common stock, the company said.
Concurrently with the merger, Paracelsus established a new senior credit facility in an amount of $400 million and Champion repurchased approximately $94.3 million in aggregate principal amount of its outstanding Series D and Series E Senior Subordinated Notes.
Paracelsus also completed a public offering of $325.0 million in 10 percent senior subordinated notes due 2006.
Sprint Corp. Tuesday announced plans to offer Internet access to consumers, jumping into the market to help millions of homes go online after similar moves by rivals AT&T Corp. and MCI Communications Corp.
Kansas City, Mo.-based Sprint, which has operated a big chunk of the Internet for American businesses since 1992, said it would offer the service for free to 200,000 of its existing telephone customers until it is introduced widely in the fall.
After that, consumers will be able to choose a flat rate of $19.95 a month for unlimited access, or $1.50 an hour with no minimum or maximum usage requirement, the nation's third-largest long-distance company said.
"A key goal of Sprint has been to make its comprehensive Internet capabilities directly available to the American public," said Robba Benjamin, president of Sprint's Multimedia Group.
"Most people who have used an online service in the last 10 years have used a Sprint network. They will be able to access this powerful network directly for the first time this fall," Benjamin said in a statement.
Sprint said the service, dubbed Sprint Internet Passport, will provide around-the-clock access to the network with a local phone call in 212 cities at first, which will rise to more than 300 by year-end.
The offering compares with the services rolled out by AT&T and MCI, as well as regional Bell operating companies, earlier this year.
AT&T's entry into the market early this year, which included some free access time, sparked a flurry of competition that sent shockwaves through the consumer Internet access business.
In 1992, Sprint became the first long-distance company to offer commercial Internet service, and now offers access to more than 1,000 Internet service providers and to a host of other businesses. Sprint also provides on-line access for most major proprietary online services.
Sprint has $12.8 billion in annual revenues and serves more than 15 million business and residential customers.
It said its offerings would also include Netscape Navigator, a rebate certificate for a high-speed modem, access speeds of up to 14.4 and 28.8 kilobits per second, a dedicated Web site with e-mail, news, directory and search services, and technical support online or through a toll-free 800 number.
Credit card billing will be offered.
Britain's FTSE 100 stock index, which sank to its lowest level of the year a month ago, chalked up a record closing high Tuesday, led by retail stocks.
"You probably couldn't have forecast a better background for the equity market than the one we've currently got," said one stock trader. "The market has a lot going for it."
The blue chip index closed 19.5 points higher at 3,883.2, surpassing the previous 3,872.9 record it set just last week.
Gainers outweighed decliners by a margin of two to one but volume was a subdued 512.9 million shares as all eyes remained fixed on the outcome of the Federal Reserve's interest-rate-setting Federal Open Markets Committee, which was meeting as the London market closed.
Retail stocks which led an early advance were boosted by the latest economic figures which showed an improvement in British consumer sentiment.
"The consumer credit figures this morning showed another booming month -- the consumer is back with a vengeance," another trader said.
But the return of the so-called "feel-good factor" in the retail sector may also reduce the likelihood of any further cuts in British interest rates, traders said.
Hizbollah said on Tuesday it would run against the government in Lebanon's parliamentary elections after being let down by a prominent government ally in the first round of voting on Sunday.
Hizbollah's solitary candidate in the opening round in Mount Lebanon, parliamentary deputy Ali Ammar, failed to win re-election on Sunday after Druze leader Walid Jumblatt, broke his alliance with the pro-Iranian group on the eve of polling.
Sheikh Hassan Nasrallah, secretary-general of Hizbollah (Party of God), was quoted on Tuesday as saying in a statement that the fundamentalist Shi'ite Moslem group "will not run on official lists (of candidates) in either the Bekaa valley, the south or Beirut".
The official lists are those of pro-government candidates.
The remaining four rounds of voting in north Lebanon, Beirut, south Lebanon and the Bekaa Valley will take place over the next four Sundays.
Under the electoral law, the deadline for candidates to register is 10 days before voting is due in their region.
Ammar was humiliated in Baabda district which includes Beirut's Shi'ite Moslem southern suburbs, a Hizbollah stronghold.
He ran on an anti-government list headed by Maronite Christian Pierre Daccache and expected to receive Christian votes as well as support from Druze voters traditionally allied with Hizbollah.
But Jumblatt, a close ally of Prime Minister Rafik al-Hariri who dislikes Hizbollah, switched his support on the eve of the vote to moderate Shi'ite politician Nabih Berri, Hizbollah's main rival in the Shi'ite community.
Jumblatt also launched a blistering attack on Hizbollah's guerrilla war against Israel in south Lebanon, saying the country could not be held hostage and risk a massive Israeli attack because of the group's activities.
Jumblatt, Berri and Hariri are pillars of the pro-Syrian political establishment which currently holds almost complete power in Lebanon.
Hizbollah has failed to reach an election pact with Berri's Amal movement in south Lebanon and the Bekaa valley, where Shi'ites are strongest. The two Shi'ite groups ran jointly in the last election in 1992 in which Hizbollah won eight parliamentary seats and its allies won four more.
Newspapers have expressed concern that violence could erupt, particularly in south Lebanon, if Hizbollah and Amal fight it out at the polls in the present election.
Former Tampa, Fla., mayor William Poe filed suit to block a September referendum on a tax financing plan for a new Tampa Bay Buccaneers stadium.
The case was filed Monday in Hillsborough County Court against county Elections Supervisor Pam Iorio. Circuit Judge James Whittmore scheduled a hearing on Friday.
Hillsborough voters go to the polls Sept 3 to decide whether to adopt a half-cent sales tax increase that would raise $2.7 billion over 30 years for schools, roads and public safety as well as a new $168 million stadium for the Bucs.
The lawsuit seeks to have the measure thrown off the ballot on grounds that it would be unconstitutional to give tax dollars to a private company.
It said the stadium the Bucs currently use is adequate and the only reason for building a new one "is to allow the owner of the private, for-profit business already using the stadium to make a higher profit."
The suit also said the ballot language is unclear and that local governments did not followed their own regulations in rushing to put the proposal on the ballot.
Poe was Tampa's mayor from 1974 to 1979. The stadium would be financed with revenue bonds issued by the Tampa Sports Authority, under an agreement with the city of Tampa and Hillsborough County.
Banco de Mexico sought to inject 4.207 billion pesos in the secondary market on Tuesday through five credit auctions, dealers said.
Perot Systems, which hopes to go public next year, said Tuesday it has named James Champy chairman of its consulting practice.
Champy will work with the company's clients to help them find ways to improve their business, lower costs and increase customer satisfaction.
He also will be working on coming up with new ways to improve and shorten the service-delivery cycle.
Champy, who most recently was chairman and chief executive of CSC Index, the management consulting arm of Computer Sciences Corp, will be based in Cambridge, Mass.
A senior Israeli minister who once likened Arabs to cockroaches in a bottle said on Tuesday it might be better for the Jewish state if the peace process "exploded."
Agriculture Minister Rafael Eitan, who led Israeli troops as army chief of staff during the 1982 invasion of Lebanon, told Israel's Haaretz newspaper in an interview that Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu would drag his feet on peace.
"The government will go at the slowest possible pace. It will scrutinize every apostrophe in the agreement before moving forward. The prime minister sees these things correctly when he's not hurrying," Haaretz quoted Eitan as saying.
"If it is good for the national interest that everything explodes, let it explode."
"In my opinion there is no peace process at all," Eitan said. "The Arabs don't wan't peace. What the previous government did was to dash for peace without understanding that the question in our region is to be annihilated or to take a stand."
The 67-year-old former general sits on Netanyahu's "security council" of senior ministers and staunchly opposes Israeli-PLO peace accords signed by the dovish government Netanyahu ousted in May elections.
"These agreements are a severe blow to the national interest. I don't know how we'll get out of this," he said.
Netanyahu, who took power in June, has yet to fulfil an agreement signed between the former government and the Palestine Liberation Organisation that committed Israel to redeploy its troops in the West Bank town of Hebron.
In 1983, an Israeli state commission criticised Eitan for failing to prevent a massacre of Palestinian civilians by Christian Lebanese militiamen at two refugee camps outside Beirut. Israeli troops were stationed not far from the scene of the massacre.
Before retiring from the army in 1983, Eitan told a parliament committee: "When we have settled the land, all the Arabs will be able to do about it will be to scurry around like drugged cockroaches in a bottle."
Turkey will borrow between $500 million and $1 billion from Turkish banks in September through a club loan deal, State Minister Ufuk Soylemez said on Tuesday.
"This transaction, expected to worth around $500 million to $1 billion, will be finalised in September," Soylemez told Reuters.
The deal is part of the government's plan to borrow from domestic markets through foreign currency denominated bonds and syndicated loans.
The government aims to relieve the burden of short domestic borrowing maturities through foreign currency deals.
"The deal will be realised between the treasury and Turkish banks," Soylemez said.
The radio said the two neighbours would invest jointly in the construction of the refinery in Pakistan's Balochistan Province.
"It has been estimated that the construction of this refinery will cost $1.2 billion, 75 percent of which will be met by international sources and the rest will be paid jointly by the two countries," the radio added without giving financing details.
The radio said the deal was signed in Islamabad on Tuesday night by ministers from both states.
The two Moslem nations also signed an agreement to conduct a feasability study for a proposed project to supply Pakistan and India with Iranian natural gas by pipeline. The project is estimated to cost around $3.5 billion, the radio added.
NOTE: Results exclude discontinued Mrs. Smith's operations.
Jones Intercable Inc and one of its managed partnerships, Jones Growth Partners II LP, said Tuesday they have agreed to sell three cable television systems to Century Communications Corp. for $140 million.
The systems serve 76,000 basic subscribers in southern California.
The sales must receive governmental and regulatory approvals. The transactions are expected to be finalized by the first half of next year.
Century owns and operates 71 cable systems.
A Czech cabinet aide said on Tuesday that the government would reject grain price increases demanded by the country's farmers by using various tools, including the possible purchase of subsidised imports.
Prime Minister Vaclav Klaus's chief adviser, Jiri Weigl, told reporters after a meeting of ministers that this year's harvest would be sufficient for covering domestic demand and therefore there was no reason for price hikes.
"Considering the situation on the domestic market, there is no reason for price increase," Weigl said.
"The state is ready to play an active role and take measures against price increases and the pressures of producers," he added.
Czech grain prices have been several hundred crowns below the world market price per tonne, but Weigl said the governemnt would, in the short-term, resist pressures of the farmers by using the state fund for regulating food prices.
"Measures vary from influencing the supply from sources of the state reserves... to possible imports," Waigl said.
Grain exports are subject to licencing by state authorities, and Weigl said licences would be granted only if the domestic demand is satisfied.
"(Libelarisation of the market) would mean that the market would aim toward... world prices, which would have serious impact on the development of inflation," Weigl told reporters.
Farmers have demanded price hikes saying their costs have grown.
Speaking about long-term grain market strategy, Weigl said that "most of the ministers" objected to the European Union (EU) system of guaranteed grain prices.
The Czechs have applied to join the EU, but Prime Minister Vaclav Klaus, widely praised abroad for his universal advocacy of the free market, has often criticised the Union's Common Agriculture Policy (CAP).
Russia had harvested and threshed 36.3 million tonnes of grain by August 17, against 34.2 million tonnes at the same time last year, Interfax news agency quoted an agriculture ministry official as saying on Tuesday.
Ivan Gridasov, head of the ministry's department of plant cultivation, said farmers had gathered 21.2 million hectares of grain, or 44 percent of the total sown area.
Interfax did not specify whether the threshed grain was clean or bunker weight.
Grain yields are averaging 1.71 tonnes per hectare, 0.26 tonnes higher than year-ago levels, he said.
The harvest is drawing to a close in many regions.
Gridasov said over 85 percent of the sown area had been harvested in Russia's Krasnodar and Stavropol regions, and the republics of North Ossetia, Adygeya, Dagestan and Kabardino-Balkaria.
But the harvest was still well behind year-ago levels in the Urals, Tatarstan and the Tula and Tyumen regions.
Shares in SPT Telecom, as expected, suffered a strong downward correction on the Prague Stock Exhcange, pulling the bourse sharply lower.
SPT shares gained 102 crowns just before Monday's session closed, but dealers had said the move was little more than a last minute accounting procedure, and that the rise did not correspond to market reality.
By the end of the session, their words had been borne out with SPT shares losing 102 crowns to 3,339.
The fall more than offset broader issues gains, dragging the PX50 index down five points, 0.88 percent, to 564.9.
Overall, 201 shares gained ground on the day, while 134 fell and 65 held steady.
"Nobody is surprised by the SPT fall. This happens quite often here when someone moves the price at the end of one session, but the market knows the real price," said one trader.
Banking issues fared well on the day, with Komercni Banka, Ceska Sporitelna and Zivnostenska Banka all posting modest gains.
Most other major issues made only minor moves.
Cardinal Health Inc said on Tuesday it named Bruce McWhinney as president of its Allied Pharmacy Service Inc unit, effective October 1.
The company said McWhinney has experience in pharmacy management, having served as director of pharmacy for the Cleveland Clinic Foundation for the last two years. He previously served as chief of pharmacy for the University of Pittsburgh Medical Center for six years.
The Federal Reserve's Federal Open Market Committee began meeting Tuesday at 0900 EDT (1300 GMT) to discuss interest rate policy.
Most economists think the economy has shown enough signs of slowing from its brisk second quarter pace for the Fed to keep rates steady.
Any decision is likely to be announced around 1415 EDT (1815 GMT), if the Fed follows past practice.
Hong Kong's Airport Authority said on Tuesday that some construction work was behind schedule but Hong Kong's new airport at Chek Lap Lok was on course to open as planned in April 1998.
"Although some construction activities have been delayed, it is not anticipated these will have a serious impact on the project programme," the Airport Authority said in a statement.
"Thus our aim remains to open the airport in April 1998 and we are confident of achieving that," said the statement, issued in response to a Hong Kong newspaper report which said the airport faced delays of up to nine months and cost over-runs.
The Airport Authority said costs remained within budget.
"We are still well within our original figure for the Airport Authority of HK$49.8 billion," it said.
The English-language Standard quoted unidentified sources as saying delays had been caused by hold-ups in construction and mismatched changes to the airport terminal design, which would cause costs to balloon by 30 percent.
Overnight interbank rates on the Egyptian pound were slightly up on Tuesday in a very short private-sector market to between 10 1/4 and 10 3/8 percent from a range of 10 to 10 3/8 percent on Monday, bankers said.
They said one-week lending rates on the pound also increased marginally in a liquid market to between 10 3/8 and 10 7/16 percent from 10 1/4 to 10 3/8 percent on Monday.
Bankers said public sector banks maintained their minimum overnight lending rate at 10.5 percent.
Indian Gujarat cotton varieties extended losses on Tuesday on sluggish demand and fresh offerings by stockists and state agencies, dealers said.
Punjab cotton was steady, they said.
In spot deals Gujarat Kalyan (medium staple) fell by 200/300 rupees to 11,800/12,000 rupees per candy (355.56 kg) while wagad cotton fell by 100/200 to 10,300/10,400.
Punjab was quiet on limited activity. Punjab saw-ginned was steady at 1,675/1,700 rupees per maund (37.32 kg) while F-414 was quiet at 1,925/1,940. "About 1,400/1,500 bales (170 kg each) of Punjab cotton were traded today," one broker said.
Disgraced Australian tycoon Alan Bond was sentenced to three years' jail on fraud charges by Judge Antoinette Kennedy in the Perth District Court yesterday. However, he will be eligible for parole in 12 months. After hearing the sentence, Bond, 58, instructed his solicitor to appeal. Page 1.
Some colleagues of Senator Malcolm Colston, who altered the balance of power in the Senate yesterday by resigning from the Australian Labor Party, said yesterday they believed he had quit because the party did not select him as its candidate for Senate Deputy President. Page 2.
The federal government's chances of securing passage of its Workplace Relations Bill through Parliament reached another hurdle yesterday when Tasmanian independent Brian Harradine told ABC Radio National he opposed the proposed legislation because it undermined trade union unity and would leave people in the work force in a defenceless position. Page 3.
The chair of the Senate committee inquiring into the Howard Government's proposed A$8 billion sale of one third of the national telecommunications carrier, Telstra, Senator Meg Lees, has revealed the committee is requesting a three-week extension because it has received insufficient information to complete its final report. Page 3.
The Federal Government last night embarked on a high-risk strategy with a budget that pays for the delivery of its election commitments to "mainstream Australia", which it defines as families, children and small business, by hitting the aged, the sick, students and the unemployed. Page 1.
Canberra experienced its second day of violent political rioting yesterday when 150 Aboriginal protesters tried to storm Old Parliament House. Two protesters and four police officers were injured when more than 100 police in full riot gear were attacked wth bricks, bottles and stakes. Page 1.
The Howard Government yesterday outlined a budget strategy which promised fundamental medium-term improvements to the economy's performance. However, this will come at a significant short-term cost with economic growth seeing a sharply reduced pace during 1996/97 and the Treasury predicting a jobless rate of 8.25 percent in mid-1997. Page 1.
Only hours after Queensland Labor Senator Mal Colston resigned from the Australian Labor Party after it failed to endorse him for the position of Senate deputy president, Colston was elected to the position, with most of the votes in the secret ballot appearing to come from the Liberals and Nationals who nominated him for the position over endorsed Labor candidate Senator Sue West. Page 3.
Treasurer Peter Costello's first Budget slashes outlays by A$19 billion in net terms, reducing government spending to its second lowest level since the early 1970s. The Coalition has halved the underlying deficit to A$5.6 billion, relying on spending cut, tax rises and user-pays charges to help finance election pledges. Page 1.
Although Australian Federal Police have vowed to track down those involved in criminal behaviour at Monday's Canberra riot, the ACT Trades and Labor Council blamed the police for a last minute change to a rally plan agreed to by the TLC which allowed protesters to enter the Parliament House forecourt. Page 2.
Although New South Wales Liberal leader Peter Collins suggested yesterday that the party might withdraw its Port Macquarie by-election candidate in an attempt to make peace with the Nationals, the National Party is almost certain to quit the 13-year Coaliion today over the Liberals' decision to pit their candidate against a National nominee. Page 3.
Westmead Hospital is considering a plan to privatise up to one quarter of the hospital, amalgamating closed wards and other hospital infrastructure and leasing them to a private hospital operator. Under the plan, the private operator would have to build perating theatres and the outpatients department would be relocated. Page 3.
Federal Treasurer Peter Costello said last night his first budget would deliver a "historic turnaround in Commonwealth finances". It appears the unemployed will bear the brunt of the Howard Government's cost-cutting budget, designed to deliver its coreelection commitments to mainstream Australia. Page A1.
Canberra saw its second successive day of violent protests yesterday, with Aboriginal demonstrators at Old Parliament House protesting against the A$400 million cuts to Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander Commission funding, sparking a 20-minute outbrea in which bricks, bottles and pieces of timber were thrown. Page A1.
Although U.S. Forces Japan has denied the incident posed any danger to the Qantas jumbo, Japanese Defence Minister Hideo Usui has announced an investigation into a Qantas pilot's complaint over an affair which saw two F-18 Hornets fly within 1,200 feet of the plane, forcing the pilot to pull into a steep climb to avoid a collision. Page A3.
Disgraced businessman Alan Bond will appeal against the severity of a three-year jail term for corporate fraud and deception, which was handed down yesterday by Western Australian District Court Judge Toni Kennedy despite strong pleas by Bond's defence counsel that the experience could be fatal for the sick businessman. Page A3.
Samsung Heavy Industries Co, a unit of the Samsung Group, said on Tuesday it would officially spin-off its commercial vehicle division into a wholly-owned subsidiary on Thursday.
The new company, tentatively named "Samsung Commercial Vehicle Ltd," will have a paid-in capital of 100 billion won, a Samsung Heavy spokesman said.
The subsidiary plans to invest 1.2 trillion won until 1999 in capacity expansion, a statement from Samsung Heavy said. The company expects annual production to reach 50,000 light trucks by September 1998 and steadily increase to 200,000 units.
It also plans to become one of the world's top 10 commercial vehicle makers by 2003.
NOTE - Full name of the German building group is Philipp Holzmann AG. Holzmann said it orders in hand totalled 13.5 billion marks at end-1995.
Standard & Poor's said on Tuesday it affirmed its AAA ratings on General Re Corp's (GRN) senior debt and on the financial programmes of General Re Financial Products Corp and removed these ratings from CreditWatch.
General Re is the largest professional reinsurer in the United States based on either its $5.0 billion of domestic statutory surplus or its $3.0 billion in net premiums written (which on a pro forma basis with National Re increase to approximately $5.4 billion and domestic $3.3 billion).
GRN's strategy is focused on being the premier global reinsurer in the eyes of its clients, employees and owners, and General Re has consistently provided innovative risk solutions and value-added underwriting and financial services to clients worldwide.
General Re's history of consistent and significant profitability in operations has surpassed reinsurance industry averages and has outpaced most AAA rated direct writers over the last several years. The company's reported five-year average combined ratio of 102.4 percent is impressive, but its "operating" combined ratio, excluding strong additions to environmental reserves, is significantly better.
Such underwriting results and substantial investment returns on $12.8 billion of invested assets have generated a nearly 20 percent return on revenue for the 1990's.
In addition to conservative operating leverage of 0.6 times (x), General Re's risk-based capital adequacy on a consolidated global level has been judged to be superior by Standard & Poor's. General Re has been quite conservative in reserving both its pre- and post-1985 business on a global basis.
GRN maintains financial leverage (pro forma for National Re) of 4.5 percent and interest coverage of 50x based on projected 1996 numbers.
Given the National Re transaction (and Cologne Re roughly 1.5 years prior), General Re seems to have most major pieces of its global strategy in place. S&P recognises that recent stock repurchases are an effective capital management tool, so long as General Re's operating companies maintain superior capital relative to underwritten risks.
S&P said the outlook for GRN was stable.
S&P expects that the near future will bring continued growth in profitability, despite short-term setbacks in top-line growth at General Re. For 1996, General Re will face relatively flat domestic premium growth, while international volume should expand by 8-10 percent because of the inclusion of a full year of Cologne Re premium volume. Longer-term, the group is expected to restore double-digit premium growth at near-break-even combined ratios, which are more likely to be underwriting profits as the growth rate of environmental reserves continues to contract, S&P said.
NOTE - Zenchiku Co Ltd is a leading meat trading company.
Savings Bank, one of the leading banks in Estonia, on Tuesday said it has started quoting shares in the leading commercial banks in fellow Baltic states of Latvia and Lithuania.
Savings Bank dealer Charlie Viikberg said the bank was now quoting shares of leading Latvian bank Unibanka and the shares and global depositary receipts of key Lithuanian commercial bank Vilnius Bank.
"They are interesting for Estonian investors also," Viikberg told Reuters, but noted that it was difficult to get hold of Vilnius Bank stock in Lithuania as it was not very liquid.
Vilnius Bank recently became the first Soviet state to launch GDRs and they are quoted in Luxembourg.
News agency Baltic News Service (BNS) said Estonian bank Hansapank already quotes Unibanka and Vilnius Bank.
Viikberg said that his bank did $50,000 of business in Vilnius Bank's GDR today but nothing in Unibanka.
Newbridge Networks Corp is on track for another strong year as analysts predict 30 percent profit growth, company officials said on Tuesday after release of record first quarter results.
"We're certainly looking forward to the coming quarters," Newbridge's head of investor relations, John Lawlor, told a conference call. "From a fundamental point of view, we're well on track here.
Newbridge reported earnings per share in the first quarter ended July 28 rose to US$0.51 per share from US$0.32 per share a year ago. The results exceeded street expectations of around US$0.49 per share.
Newbridge officials said analysts were projecting earnings of US$2.17 per share for the full year. They said they believe those numbers are consistent with the guidance they have been giving to analysts.
Newbridge reported that gross margins held steady at 64.8 percent in the first quarter compared with 64.8 percent in the fourth quarter. Cash balances, however, rose C$30 million to C$486 million.
The Belgian National Bank said in its daily official interest rate announcement that it left key rates unchanged.
The central rate for primary dealers of government debt is 3.20 percent, the end-of-day rate for all others 4.45 percent.
The emergency lending rate, an open-ended overnight facility for all financial institutions, is 6.00 percent.
The discount rate stands at 2.50 percent.
In a theatre open to London's often rainy skies, a troupe of actors begins a risky experiment on Wednesday to discover what William Shakespeare's plays were like when first peformed 400 years ago.
The Globe Theatre is a replica of the 20-sided wood-and-thatch arena which Shakespeare part-owned and where his finest works, including "Macbeth," "Hamlet" and "King Lear", were staged during his lifetime.
It is the realisation of the dream of American actor-director Sam Wanamaker, who died of cancer in 1993, just as the theatre's wooden framework was being put in place.
Wanamaker had waged a 40-year battle against bureacracy and commercial greed to get the new Globe built just yards (metres) from the site of the original on the south bank of the Thames, opposite St Paul's Cathedral.
His vision is still central to the 30 million pound ($46 million) Globe, which begins a "prologue season" on Wednesday with a production of "Two Gentlemen of Verona."
"Anyone who worked with Sam was very much influenced by what he wanted to put together," said Lennie James, who plays one of the "Two Gentlemen."
Interviewed under grey skies in the Globe's auditorium on Tuesday, James said the place feels permeated with a sense of history.
"When (artistic director Mark Rylance) first welcomed us onto the stage saying we were the first actors in 400 years to stand here, I got a real buzz," he said.
Wanamaker's aim was to recreate, as far as possible, the conditions that Shakespeare's actors worked under in the 16th and 17th centuries.
The audience, many of them standing, would have been crowded around the stage ready to heckle the actors and punish bad performances with volleys of rotten fruit.
The actors had little time to learn their roles and would not have seen the full script, which was kept carefully guarded for fear that it would be stolen by another theatre.
The Globe has been carefully recreated from historical records and what could be gleaned from excavation of the original, destroyed in 1644 by England's puritan rulers. But little is still known about the theatres of the day.
Rylance said he hoped that working before a live audience would help show up anything the historians got wrong.
"We do not claim that this is it," said the boyish Rylance. "This is the best we can do in 1996. There's bound to be more evidence and we look forward to it."
Notwithstanding his search for authenticity, Rylance's production will depart drastically from Shakespearian traditions.
The cast of "Two Gentlemen of Verona" will include women and black actors, both unheard of in Shakespeare's day, and the play is set in modern Italy.
Even less traditional, the Globe will be selling cushions for the hard seats and raincoats -- thunderstorms are in the weather forecast for the opening night.
The choice of "Two Gentleman of Verona", one of Shakespeare's lesser-known plays, has raised critics' eyebrows, but Rylance says it is symbolic.
It was written before the original Globe was built in 1599, just as the prologue predates the scheduled official opening of its successor in June 1997, he said.
U.S. Treasuries ended little changed on Tuesday after the Federal Reserve held a policy meeting and decided to leave interest rates unchanged.
"This was one of the few times in history that traders and economists all agreed on what would happen and were right," said Carol Stone, senior economist at Nomura Securities.
Matthew Alexy, chief markets strategist at CS First Boston, agreed that the outcome of the Fed's Federal Open Market Committee (FOMC) policy meeting was not surprising.
Those "triggers" were the second-quarter Employment Cost Index (ECI), the July National Association of Purchasing Management (NAPM) index, and the July U.S. employment report.
Moreover, Alexy argued that recent economic data have begun to suggest that the Fed would leave interest rates unchanged for the rest of the year. In fact, he said, it is "very difficult" to predict in which direction the Fed would move were it to alter rates next year.
But Griggs said if August economic data "come back strong, as we think it will, it will raise questions in the market's mind about whether the Fed would go ahead and make a firming move right in front of the (U.S. presidential) election.
The FOMC next meets on September 24.
Griggs said he does not expect the Fed to raise interest rates then but he said the market "will become more defensive," pushing market interest rates higher.
"Out into the middle of September, before the elections, the long bond will trade close to 6-1/2 percent and the two-year note very close to 5.65 percent or so," Alexy said in a Tuesday afternoon conference call.
Early in the trading session, the market appeared to get a modest boost from the government's report showing that the U.S. trade gap shrank 23 percent in June to $8.1 billion.
The market gets July durable goods orders data on Friday but mostly, until the August NAPM and U.S. payrolls report due the first week of September, what is on the market's mind is "vacation," said Marilyn Schaja, money market economist at Donaldson, Lufkin & Jenrette.
"It's going to be very quiet over the next couple of week," said Schaja. "A lot of people are out this week and more are going to be out next week."
At the close, three- and six-month bill rates were down two and four basis points to 5.03 percent and 5.10 percent, respectively. The one-year bill rate fell three basis points to 5.31 percent.
The 6-1/4 percent two-year note ended unchanged at 100-17/32, its yield at 5.95 percent.
Five-year notes ended unchanged at 101-8/32, yielding 6.33 percent.
The 10-year note closed up 1/32 to 103-2/32, yielding 6.57 percent.
The benchmark 6-3/4 30-year Treasury bond closed at 99-12/32, down 1/32, its yield at 6.80 percent, unchanged from Monday's close.
California's state Senate passed a resolution Monday urging President Clinton and the Congress to reimburse the state for expenses it incurred during the Civil War.
Republican Assemblyman Mickey Conroy's resolution moved with little fanfare through the state Legislature. It was approved late Monday by the Senate by a vote of 32-to-1. It was backed earlier this year in the state Assembly.
The resolution "memorializes" Clinton and Congress to enact legislation that would finally repay the long-forgotten Civil War debt, now estimated to be worth $82 million.
Conroy maintains the Civil War debt represents the first unfunded mandate imposed on California by Washington.
In the early 1860s, the Congress and the administration of President Abraham Lincoln solicited financial support from the states -- California in particular -- with promises of repayment.
In 1863, California sold $668,570.86 in bonds to raise and maintain troops who joined the Union cause in the Civil War.
By 1865, California had raised a state militia of more than 13,000 men and enlisted nearly 16,000 who were mustered into Union service as California volunteers.
In the years after the war, the federal government reimbursed 25 states for their expenses. But California's debt remained unrecognized due to bureaucratic rules in Washington.
For decades following the Civil War, California officials demanded the money from Washington. But when the last court case involving the bonds closed in 1954, the issue faded.
The debate was revived in 1963, when then-state Attorney General Stanley Mosk called on the Senate to make good on the debt. Five years later, California Gov. Ronald Reagan took up the war bond banner in his skirmishes with Washington. But even Reagan would fail to secure repayment.
After Reagan, the issue was largely forgotten until 1995, when Rick Stevenson, a former president of the Sacramento, California, Historical Society and a Civil War expert, convinced Assemblyman Conroy to take up the cause.
According to Conroy's resolution, the state today could claim more than $81.7 million from the federal government, a figure that includes compounded interest over the years.
"Historical evidence strongly suggests the federal government should have fully reimbursed the state for these bonds more than 100 years ago," a 1995 report by the state Assembly Office of Research concluded.
If the federal government repays the obligation, state officials said the money would be used to establish a military museum dedicated to California's veterans, including those of the Civil War.
Stevenson hailed the Senate vote on the resolution.
"But the battle is not over," he said. "The battle's not over until we get the money."
The Taiwan dollar ended lower on Tuesday as worries over the island's ties with China triggered active investor flight to the U.S. dollar, dealers said.
The local unit ended at its intra-day low of T$27.519 against Monday's T$27.485 close. Turnover was an active US$298 million. Many investors were concerned that a secret journey by Vice-President Lien Chan could anger Beijing, dealers said.
Base metals were steady in narrow price range on Tuesday while ready copper was quiet after falling on Monday, dealers said.
Copper was unchanged at 12,800 rupees per quintal on tighter supplies after falling 200 rupees on Monday, they said.
Tin held ground at the improved level of 36,000 rupees per quintal as also nickel at 37,300 on stray physical support. Tin gained 200 rupees and nickel 300 on Monday.
Aluminium was quiet at 7,450 rupees per quintal, zinc at 6,300 and lead at 4,850 in nominal trading.
Tibet's spiritual leader, the Dalai Lama, will meet South African President Nelson Mandela at his official residence in Cape Town on Thursday, a presidential spokesman said on Tuesday.
The Dalai Lama is on a private visit to South Africa, hosted by the World Conference on Religion and Peace, and is scheduled to give lectures on peace in several centres around the country.
Mandela's spokesman Parks Mankahlana said the two Nobel Peace laureates would meet for about half an hour to discuss various issues. He did not elaborate.
The Dalai Lama told a news conference in Durban that Mandela's government could help to put pressure on China, which annexed Tibet in 1950, to negotiate the future of the country.
"South Africa is now part of the world community. So when I appeal to the world community to please not forget us and to please try to bring people from China around the negotiation table...of course South Africa can be one of those important members," the Dalai Lama said.
He said there was no conflict of interest between his struggle for his people's freedom from China and his religious belief.
"I consider my involvement in the freedom struggle for Tibet to be part of my own spiritual practice because Tibetan freedom is very much linked with spirituality under the present circumstances," the Dalai Lama said.
Mandela, whose government is under pressure from China to cut its ties with Taiwan, could court further controversy with Beijing by meeting the Buddhist leader.
The Dalai Lama fled to India in 1959 after an abortive uprising against China's annexation and heads a Tibetan government-in-exile in the Himalayan Indian town of Dharamsala.
Mandela inherited ties with Taiwan from the former apartheid regime in 1994. Both states were outcasts, largely shunned by the international community.
But Beijing was no natural ally for his African National Congress during the fight against white rule. Moscow backed the ANC, so its arch-foe Beijing supported the rival Pan Africanist Congress which has now largely faded away.
Taiwan however gave the ANC considerable support during the late stages of the struggle for majority rule.
Shipping and tank storage firm Koninklijke van Ommeren NV said on Tuesday it expected the 1996 full-year net profit to be clearly higher than 1995's 80.3 million guilders.
Van Ommeren said its first-half operating profit had risen by 2.4 million guilders to 77.8 million. It said the 1995 figure included an unspecified gain on the sale of ships, adding it had changed its accounting principles at the beginning of 1996.
Adjusted for these effects, the first-half operating profit would have risen by 17.8 million guilders. Tank storage operations in Asia and the tanker shipping division in particular contributed to this improvement, Van Ommeren said.
Adjusted for the effect of this sale, first-half turnover would have shown a rise of 73.7 million guilders.
This underlying growth in turnover was caused by the consolidation of unit Chemgas' figures, takeovers in the tank storage sector and improved business at the dry cargo terminals operations in the United States, Van Ommeren said.
An explosion on Tuesday killed the finance minister of the southern Russian region of Dagestan, bordering Chechnya, Itar-Tass news agency said.
The minister, Hamid Hamidov, was at the entrance to the finance ministry building in Dagestan's capital Makhachkala when a parked car exploded, Tass quoted witnesses as saying.
Russia's Mayak radio, monitored by the British Broadcasting Corporation, quoted initial reports as saying four people had been killed and eight injured.
"According to first reports, which are now being verified, the Dagestani minister of finance is among the dead," the radio said.
Russian troops have been fighting separatist rebels in Chechnya for more than 20 months.
Belgium's National Bank will begin removing its old-style 100-franc banknote from circulation from September 2 ahead of a definitive phase-out on December 16, it said in a statement on Wednesday.
The notes, first issued on April 5, 1978, depict the nineteenth century architect, Hendrik Beyaert, a champion of the so-called Eclectic Movement which combined styles from different periods in one building.
Beyaert (1823-1894) designed the Bank's Brussels and Antwerp headquarters as well as the "Petit Sablon" park in Brussels.
After the phase-out date, notes will be exchangeable only at the National Bank's own counters.
The notes have already begun to be replaced by ones depicting Belgian painture and caricaturist James Ensor whose paintings used bizarre and fantastic images as symbols of the evils of society.
Citibank Espana has issued 8,000 call and put warrants, in four equal tranches, on the MEFF 10-year future contract, lead manager Citibank NA said.
Trading in the shares of sports retailer Intersport Holding AG was suspended on the Swiss Exchange pending a company news conference in the afternoon, an exchange spokesman said.
The spokesman said trading might resume during the afternoon, but a decision had not yet been taken.
On Monday morning Intersport scheduled a news conference for 1200 GMT on Tuesday to inform about important decisions that would have a decisive impact on the company's future.
Intersport shares rose seven francs to 75 francs on Monday.
Taiwan's money rates ended lower on Tuesday on easing liquidity after the central bank's recent fund injection, dealers said.
The overnight interbank rate finished at 5.428 percent against Monday's 5.436 end, with 30-day commercial paper at 5.40-5.50 against 5.50. The central bank injected T$8.665 billion in funds into the banking system on Tuesday.
The government bond yields were stable as the average yield of the 15-year construction bonds, which were auctioned in the afternoon, was lower than the market's original expectation.
NYMEX crude oil and refined product futures trimmed some of their losses ahead of the close, but overall the market remained in a profit-taking mode, traders said Monday afternoon.
"This definitely is a give-back day," said Gerald Samuels, managing director of ARB Oil, referring to profit-taking.
September crude, expiring at the end of the session, was 44 cents lower at $22.82 a barrel. October crude was benefiting from the last of the rolling out of September positions, shedding just 24 cents and trading at $22.23 a barrel in the final minutes of the session.
State-owned aerospace group SNI Aerospatiale reaffirmed on Tuesday it aimed to agree merger terms with warplane maker Dassault Aviation by the end of this year, as announced.
An Aerospatiale spokeswoman, responding to an article in business daily La Tribune Desfosses, said, "There is no question of doubting the timetable set by the government. The details will be agreed at the latest by December 31."
The newspaper quoted Aerospatiale chairman Yves Michot as saying the new merged company could start life by mid-1997 at the earliest, after legal formalities were completed.
A statement from Prime Minister Alain Juppe said on July 1 that the technical, financial and industrial aspects of the Aerospatiale-Dassault merger should be completed by January 1, 1997.
The merger is aimed at creating a French national champion in defence and civilian aerospace with annual sales of 60 billion francs and paving the way for a European industrial consolidation.
Chinese car production is outpacing domestic demand, and makers need to start exporting to close the widening gap, the Economic Information Daily quoted authorities as saying on Tuesday.
Industry specialists predict that by 2000, China would have an annual production capacity of 1.2-to-1.4 million light goods and passenger vehicles, with the demand at about 800,000 units, the newspaper said.
Production capactiy for light vehicles would rise to 1.7-to-1.8 vehicles for each one in demand. That compares with a ratio of about 1.4-to-1.0 in 1995, it said.
China produced just 555,000 light vehicles in 1995 despite having an annual production capacity of more than 800,000 units, it said, quoting statistics from the Ministry of Machine-Building Industry.
Industry officials predict that by the turn of the century, the total demand for cars and all types of trucks would be 2.7 million per year, it said without giving a figure for expected capacity at that time.
Lloyd's of London chief executive Ron Sandler on Tuesday faced a three hour grilling in a crucial United States court case, which threatens at the last minute to upset a recovery plan for the 300-year-old insurance market.
Sandler is fighting the action personally and underwent several hours of cross-examination on Monday, said Lloyd's.
On Tuesday, he said the recovery plan was essential to the future of Lloyd's. Under the proposals, Lloyd's is to reinsure billions of pounds in liabilities, including pollution and asbestosis claims in the U.S., into a new company Equitas.
Judge Robert Payne in Monday's sitting criticised the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission for refusing to determine if Lloyd's should be subject to U.S. securities laws.
The legal challenge was complicated on Friday by the SEC's neutral position on this issue. Payne said the SEC would have a second opportunity to respond to his request for a ruling.
"We are pleased by this decision. Names entered into their commitments under UK law and we are pleased that U.S. courts continue to recognise this," said Lloyd's U.S. boss Peter Lane.
In Britain, support among Names for the recovery plan has grown since Lloyd's improved its proposals, which include a 3.2 billion stg offer to Names designed to offset the cost of Equitas.
But a former Name heading an action group of loss-making investors, on Tuesday hit out at Lloyd's for "breaking promises" he says were made to the hardest-hit Names.
The outspoken chairman of the Lloyd's Names Associations' Working Party and the deputy leader of the Lloyd's Defence Shield, Christopher Stockwell, ended weeks of silence with the charge Lloyd's has "reneged" on income and housing pledges.
Stockwell said the scheme was entirely dependent on the availability of future funds. This meant Lloyd's could end the scheme at any time, which amounted to no formal commitment.
He also claimed that fewer than 20 percent of Names have so far accepted the recovery plan. Lloyd's rejected both statements. The market last week published guidelines for helping those Names who were worst off after accepting its recovery plan.
Farm reforms on both sides of the Atlantic are expected to boost production for export and sharpen rivalry between the United States and the European Union, the two main agricultural superpowers, analysts say.
U.S. grain and other farm exports are set to expand under a new seven-year "Freedom to Farm" Act which effectively removed production curbs.
American farmers are likely to plant more wheat and maize which will end up on export markets, according to EU officials.
For its part the EU is preparing reforms involving further cuts in its price support mechanism to prevent costs spiralling after it expands eastwards and takes in large numbers of low-cost farmers from 10 former communist countries.
The reforms, aimed at making EU farmers cope with world price levels, would allow a major growth in exports since, under international trade rules, there are no limits on unsubsidised exports of grain and other agricultural products.
But Brussels would still top up European farmers' incomes through direct payments independent of what they produce.
"(EU) farmers could be receiving world market prices for what they sell and then get a side package of compensatory payments," said U.S. agricultural attache George Pope.
In an interview on Monday, Pope said that the big battle in the next round of European farm reform was likely to be over the level of compensatory payments for cuts in support prices.
Under the Farm Act signed by President Bill Clinton in April, U.S. farmers also receive fixed aid payments independent of market prices with an extra safety net of a loan rate system.
But the major change is that American farmers no longer have to set aside farmland annually and can choose what crops, except for fruit and vegetables, to grow.
However, the EU, anxious to prevent mountains of unwanted grain reappearing as farmers cash in on record world prices, has maintained a compulsory, annual set-aside but at a lower rate.
We want to keep some control of output, said an EU official.
Most EU farmers will have to set aside five percent of their farmland in 1997, compared with 15 percent when the scheme was introduced in 1993 and public stocks stood at 33 million tonnes.
Pope said around 35 million acres (14 million hectares) of U.S. farmland continued to be set aside under a long-term Conservation Reserve Programme.
U.S. Agricultural Secretary Dan Glickman was surprised that more farmers had not moved out of the long-term programme to take advantage of the new production opportunities, Pope said.
However, the new act was only signed late in the marketing year and farmers may opt out next year, he said.
European farmers have attacked the Farm Act, saying it aimed to increase American dominance of world grain and other agricultural markets. But Pope said U.S. farm exports would be rising in expanding world markets.
The Asia Pacific Resources Internatitonal Holdings Ltd, also known as the APRIL Group, said on Monday its second-quarter results were hurt by lower world prices for pulp and rayon fiber.
The Singapore-based company posted a net loss of $0.14 per share compared to a net profit of $0.11 per share the same period last year. Net sales for the quarter dropped 26 percent to $95.7 million.
The company said the average realized price of blended pulp dropped 59 percent and rayon fell 26 percent compared to last year.
But the company's finance director, Berry Kwock, said he is encouraged by the recovery in pulp prices over the last two months and the improvements in its Riaupulp unit's performance.
"We are also very pleased with the ease with which Indorayon can switch between dissolving pulp and paper pulp production as this allows us to maximize sales and earnings by taking into account market pricing trends," he said.
Higher interest charges in the second quarter also affected the company's profits. The higher charges came from long-term debt obligations incurred during the year.
APRIL Group said it expects the interest costs to be reduced in the second half of the year because of the ongoing conversion to U.S. dollar-denominated obligations.
The APRIL Group, a pan-Asian pulp and rayon fiber producer, said its projects in China are expected to start up in the latter half of 1998.
The U.S. government on Tuesday ended almost three months of testimony against three militant Moslems accused of plotting to bomb 12 U.S. passenger jets to punish America for its support of Israel.
The three have been on trial in Manhattan federal court since May for their alleged plan to destroy the planes within a 48-hour period last year and kill some 4,000 passengers as they returned to the United States from the Far East.
The alleged ringleader of the airline bombing scheme was Ramzi Ahmed Yousef, who will be tried again later this year on charges that he masterminded the 1993 World Trade Centre bombing that killed six people and injured more than 1,000.
Other defendants in the airline scheme were Abdul Hakim Murad and Wali Khan Amin Shah.
The trial moved into a crucial stage of testimony last month close to the time of the explosion that destroyed TWA Flight 800 that took off from New York's John F. Kennedy International Airport, killing all 230 people aboard.
Speculation that a bomb caused the explosion and reports that possible sabotage might be linked to Yousef or his associates caused U.S. District Judge Kevin Duffy to question jurors about whether they could remain fair.
None of the jurors said their judgment of the defendants would be affected by the TWA explosion.
Less than a week after the plane crash, a Microsoft expert walked jurors through key files taken from a laptop computer recovered from an apartment shared by Yousef and Murad.
Jurors were shown schedules for Delta, Northwest and United flights bound for the United States from the Far East. After each departure time was the word "timer" followed by what appeared to be the detonation time.
At the top of the file was the word "Bojinka," which prosecutors say was the name the defendants gave to the airline bombing plot.
Yousef was also charged with placing a bomb on a Philippine Airlines flight from Manila to Tokyo on Dec. 11, 1994, as a trial run for the later massive explosions. The bomb exploded under the seat of a Japanese passenger, killing him and injuring 10 other people.
The flight originated in Manila and Yousef allegedly left the plane during a stopover. Prosecutors alleged that he mixed the bomb in a restroom during the first leg of the flight and placed it under his seat with the timer set to detonate the bomb after the plane left for Toyko.
The schedules in the laptop computer were for flights with stopovers before they reached the United States.
Last week a Secret Service agent testified that Yousef boasted during his extradition flight from Pakistan, where he was arrested, to New York that he would have blown up several jets within a few weeks if his plan had not been discovered.
The plot to bomb the airliners was uncovered on Jan. 6, 1995, when a fire broke out in a Manila apartment where Yousef and Murad were mixing chemicals. Philippine police found the laptop computer during their search of the apartment.
With consumer inflation slowing half a point in July to 22 percent - its lowest level in a year - market analysts seem satisfied that, at last, Zimbabwe's inflation cycle has turned.
Since breaking through the 20-percent barrier in 1991, inflation in Zimbabwe has averaged 27 percent and has been stuck around 22 percent for the last three years.
But not everyone shares the market's "conventional wisdom" of markedly lower inflation in the latter half of 1996 and into next year. Indeed, it is increasingly difficult to understand why market analysts are so upbeat in their inflation forecasts.
The slowdown from recent peaks of 28 percent in January to July's 22 percent is explained chiefly by the excellent harvest and the fall in some food prices, the increasingly overvalued Zimbabwe dollar exchange rate, which has kept the lid on import prices, and high levels of competition in the domestic market, which have prevented firms from passing on cost increases as liberally as they would have liked.
Until last year, too, average real wages were falling, also contributing to greater price stability.
With the favourable food price effect beginning to lose momentum, the Zimbabwe dollar set for a substantial downward adjustment and the government seemingly committed to inflationary import tarrif hikes - to counter what Zimbabwean industrialists call South African dumping - the three main influences making for lower inflation are likely to be reversed over the next six to nine months.
Add to that, the spate of wage awards well above the inflation rate and continued excessive money supply growth in the first half of 1996, and the inflation outlook looks increasingly bleak.
The July budget adopted a benign neglect stance towards inflation and the country's worsening debt-trap situation. No corrective measures were taken to curb money supply growth, and the projected budget deficit of 8.5 percent of GDP in 1996/97 will maintain upward pressures on prices over the next year.
The latest money supply numbers make depressing reading too. In the first half of the year, the monetary aggregates grew at annual rates ranging from 25 percent to 48 percent, well above the official target of 18 percent to 22 percent.
However, that is only part of the story. This excessive monetary expansion occurred despite a huge - and increasingly unsustainable - sterilization campaign by the central bank.
By July, the Reserve Bank of Zimbabwe's Treasury bill issue had grown to over Z$22 billion (US$220 million) from Z$6.5 billion a year earlier.
Indeed, government's floating debt of "ordinary" and "special" Treasury bills now approximates 35 percent of GDP, costing the taxpayer some Z$5.3 billion a year (about eight percent of GDP) in interest charges. Some of the more thoughtful analysts are asking how much longer this balancing act of mopping up Z$1 billion and more in special Treasury bills each month can continue.
When he delivers his half-yearly monetary policy statement in the next few weeks, RBZ governor Leonard Tsumba may give some clues, unlike his boss, Finance Minister Herbert Murerwa, who sidestepped the whole problem in his budget speech last month.
Not that Dr Tsumba has any great room to manoeuvre. He is locked into a policy cul-de-sac from which there is no easy escape. If he listens to the increasingly shrill demands of the industrial lobby to cut interest rates, credit growth will take off thereby ensuring that the downturn in inflation is shortlived. If he continues to expand the Treasury bill mountain at the current rate of Z$1 billion a month, he may delay the inevitable monetary explosion for a while yet, but only at an enormously heavy cost to the taxpayer.
To compound his problems the Zimbabwe dollar continues to appreciate in the foreign exchange market. In the first seven months of 1996, the Zimbabwe currency has appreciated some 15 percent against that of its main trading partner, the South African rand. With a gap of some 15 percent between Zimbabwe's 22 percent and South Africa's seven percent inflation rates, the real appreciation of Zimbabew's dollar - against an admittedly weak and probably undervalued rand - is running close to 30 percent. Against all currencies, the Zimbabwe unit is up some 10 percent to 12 percent in real terms over the past year.
With agricultural exports, especiallly tobacco, in boom mode and some of the main mineral exports also doing well, there is no great pressure on the balance of payments, especially since high real interest rates have constrained import and investment demand. But tourism is beginning to hurt, while mining companies are reporting unit cost increases of between 17 and 22 percent that are squeezing their margins.
Industrialists continue to clamour for anti-dumping measures against South Africa, seemingly unperturbed by the much more potent threat of low-cost competition from the Asian Rim and the need to reduce their dependence on domestic market sales. Indeed, the contrast between their vehement demands for tariff restructuring (a euphemism for greater protection) and their silence on exchange rate overvaluation is striking. It confirms that Zimbabwe has some way to go before the culture of export-led growth takes root amongst its industrial community.
Sooner rather than later the problems of the Treasury bill mountain, the monetary bubble, the liquidity overhang and the overvalued exchange rate will have to be resolved. It's hard to avoid the conclusion that the resolution is going to be both painful and inflationary.
The more protracted the strategy of  benign neglect the nastier the eventual monetary crunch will be when it comes.
The Sri Lankan army said on Tuesday it planned to step up food supplies to the country's war-torn north, while separatist Tamil rebels accused the military of resuming its shelling of a rebel town.
A statement faxed from London by the Liberation Tigers of Tamil Eelam (LTTE) said the army had begun shelling Kilinochchi, 285 km (175 miles) north of Colombo, after a week-long pause.
An army spokesman denied the charge.
"No, that is not true," he told Reuters. "We are only retaliating if and when they fire mortars at us."
The army's statement did not mention any bombardment, focusing instead on relief work for the refugees.
On Tuesday, aid workers voiced concern over the plight of some 600,000 civilians facing hunger in the country's north.
An army statement said it hoped to resume a normal supply of 50 truckloads per day soon. Nearly 300 trucks of food had been sent to the northern Wanni mainland since the army lifted a three-week blockade on August 12, it said.
"The resumption of food convoys should alleviate a potentially dangerous situation," an official for the International Committee of the Red Cross told Reuters.
"Arrangements have been made to send 50 truckloads of food daily into the uncleared areas north of Vavuniya, as was done before the LTTE detained several convoys," it said.
"Regularly, convoys of lorries carrying rice, flour and other essential foodstuff have been leaving Vavuniya since the resumption," the statement added.
Aid workers confirmed the government had sent nearly 300 truckloads of food to the Wanni mainland.
The army launched an offensive on the northern rebel-held town of Kilinochchi on July 26. The military then banned food convoys to the rebel-held areas after accusing the rebels of taking the food and letting civilians go hungry.
The rebels, fighting a 13-year war for independence in the Indian Ocean island's north and east, denied government charges that it had hijacked food sent to civilians. The Tamil rebels accused the government of blocking food supplies to force refugees into army-held areas.
The Wanni refugee population had swelled since the beginning of the army assault on Kilinochchi.
The army has said its troops were digging in one km (half a mile) north of Kilinochchi, where the LTTE set up bases after being ousted from their northern Jaffna peninsula stronghold in April.
The Tigers say they have stalled the army's advance on Kilinochchi.
"The army, which is stuck in the Paranthan area north of Kilinochchi is taking its revenge on civilians by firing artillery shells towards far away places," the statement said.
Kilinochchi's 200,000 residents abandoned the town, with most of them fleeing to the surrounding jungles while others sought sanctuary with friends and relatives, aid workers said.
They said on Monday diseases like malaria, jaundice and septicaemia, or blood poisoning, were spreading widely among the refugees. Two children have already died of septicaemia.
The government says more than 50,000 people have died in the ethnic war.
National Semiconductor Corp. said Tuesday it is cutting its headquarters work force by 170 people.
The computer chip maker, which has 20,000 employees worldwide, said in June that it expected some layoffs as part of "cost containment" measures associated with the spin-off of its new unit, Fairchild Semiconductor.
At the time, National Semiconductor said it expected to take a charge of $280 million to $320 million in the current quarter, in part to cover the cost of the work-force reductions.
The job cuts were mainly in the administrative and manufacturing support areas. Dick Wilson, vice president of human resources, said the cutbacks were an attempt to cut costs as well as centralize the company's operations.
The company reported sales of $2.6 billion in fiscal 1996.
Shares of National Semiconductor were unchanged at $15.875 at the close of trading on the New York Stock Exchange.
Susan McDougal, a former business partner and close friend of President Bill Clinton, was sentenced on Tuesday to two years in prison for her fraud convictions in a Whitewater trial.
U.S. District Judge George Howard gave McDougal three concurrent two-year prison terms and an additional three years probation. She was convicted in May on four charges relating to a fraudulent $300,000 business loan awarded to her in 1986.
Prosecutors alleged Clinton twice pressured an Arkansas banker to give McDougal the loan and that part of the funds went to benefit the failed Whitewater real estate venture in which Clinton and his wife invested, and lost, money.
But the president, who was Arkansas governor at the time of the deal, was not charged with any crime and he flatly denied under oath any involvement in the affair.
Defence attorney Bobby McDaniel angrily alleged on Tuesday that McDougal, 41, was the victim of a partisan investigation aimed at humiliating Clinton in an election year. "She is a pawn of a political agenda. If Bill Clinton had not been nominated, none of this would ever have occurred," he said.
McDaniel told reporters the team of independent counsel Kenneth Starr had offered McDougal leniency in exchange for information implicating the president or first lady Hillary Rodham Clinton in any illegal deals.
Starr, who is leading the Whitewater probe into the Clintons' finances, refused to comment on whether he would try to cut a deal with McDougal but he did say his team wanted to get to the bottom of the case. "Our investiation is to get at the facts, get at the truth and we would obviously welcome any person willing to assist us in that endeavour," he said.
Susan McDougal, her former husband James McDougal and the Clintons were partners in the Whitewater venture and were close friends throughout the 1980s.
James McDougal, 56, was convicted on 18 fraud and conspiracy charges and faced up to 84 years in prison but his sentencing has been postponed until November because he is cooperating with Starr's team.
A colourful Arkansas businessman and political insider, he backed Clinton's rise through the political ranks and knows the president better than anyone else so far targeted in the Whitewater probe. It was not clear what information he may be able to give Starr on Clinton, but prosecutors were expected to focus on Clinton's alleged involvement in winning the $300,000 loan that was taken out in Susan McDougal's name.
Starr has said his politically sensitive investigation will be put on ice before the Nov. 5 election but refused to put a date on it. He said on Monday the probe was still "moving forward very rapidly" on several fronts.
Susan McDougal's lawyers on Tuesday portrayed her as a naive young woman at the time of the offences, saying she unthinkingly followed the instructions of her husband, who is 15 years her senior. "He was always my teacher and my mentor ... everything Jim had done always seemed right to me," Susan McDougal said in pleading for leniency. "I am truly sorry."
But Judge Howard was not swayed. "The court is persuaded it will take Mrs. McDougal out of circulation for a reasonable period of time and afford her the opportunity to do some reflective thinking," he said.
Apart from the prison sentence, Susan McDougal was told to pay restitution of $300,000 plus interest to the U.S. Small Business Adminstration, which had insured the illegal loan. Howard also ordered her to pay a $5,000 fine and do more than 300 hours of community service.
Former Arkansas Gov. Jim Guy Tucker, who was not a partner in the Whitewater deal but was convicted with the McDougals on fraud and conspiracy charges, was sentenced on Monday to four years probation and fines of more than $300,000.
Tucker, who resigned his office in July, avoided jail time because of a life-threatening liver problem that physicians said had a 50 percent chance of killing him within two years if he did not get a liver transplant.
Singapore's new downtown area, on the reclaimed land around Marina Bay, would potentially add 2.6 million square feet of prime office space to the city centre, said the Urban Redevelopment Board on Tuesday.
The increase in space would help stabilise office rental rates, said the URA at the launch of the new downtown exhibition.
It said 26,000 new homes will also be built in the area which would be supported by more mass rapid transport (MRT) stations. A light rail transport system is also being studied.
URA said the first government land sale is targetted for launch next year.
The following bond was announced by lead manager Kredietbank.
NOVAMETRIX MEDICAL SYSTEMS INC.
With 315 days to go before the British colony reverts to China, the Hong Kong media focused on issues related to the handover, the election of the 400-strong Selection Committee and the future official language.
The middle of the road HONG KONG ECONOMIC JOURNAL said the Democratic Party's refusal to join the Selection Committee might not prove to be political suicide provided the party could influence the establishment from the outside.
It said Hong Kong people should persuade Beijing to allow such political freedoms to counteract the lack of representativeness of the provisional legislature.
It said the Democratic Party should grasp any opportunity to talk to Beijing and fight for its legal existence after the handover.
It said time was running out and it was meaningless to quibble over the election of the provisional legislature and the chief executive. It said politicians should not ignore the reality that if Hong Kong people were forced to choose, most of them would go for money instead of democracy.
The pro-Beijing TA KUNG PAO said that the attempt by some people to ask the courts to judge the legality of the provisional legislature was ridiculous. It said the Hong Kong courts were a part of the British colonial structure, while the provisional legislature would be set up according to the Basic Law and the decisions of China's National People's Congress.
It said the colonial court had no power to judge the legality of the provisional legislature and the laws it would make.
The English-language HONGKONG STANDARD said the Government should do everything it could to encourage young people to want to learn Putonghua. It said Putonghua would make a more logical official language than Cantonese.
The middle of the road HONG KONG ECONOMIC TIMES said Hong Kong's unemployment rate was likely to drop further but it was still difficult for low-income, old and skilless people to find jobs.
Wella AG, the German haircare group, Tuesday reported healthy growth in sales and earnings in the first six months as new product launches helped it outperform the rest of the industry.
Operating profit rose 25 percent to 61 million marks ($40.95 million), while sales expanded 11.3 percent to 1.82 billion marks ($1.22 billion), the company said in its interim report.
It predicted full-year sales would rise by 7-10 percent and said earnings growth was likely to be stronger.
"We are anticipating a continuation of the positive business development in the second half of 1996," Wella said.
But the news failed to give buoyancy to Wella's shares. The ordinary shares closed down nine marks ($6) or 1 percent at 888 marks ($596.17). Preference shares closed little changed at 900 marks ($604.23), down 0.10 marks (6.7 cents), after recovering from a day's low of 885 ($594.16).
Pre-tax profit fell to 61 million marks ($41 million) from 83 million marks ($55.7 million) in the year-earlier period, when Wella had a one-time gain of 35 million marks ($23.5 million) from the dissolution of provisions no longer required.
The first-half operating earnings growth marks a turnaround from 1995 when net profit slumped 41 percent to 74.2 million marks ($49.8 million) amid adverse currency movements and operational problems.
Wella in April predicted net profit would rebound 25 percent in 1995.
The sales rise of 11.3 percent outstripped market growth of less than 3 percent, Wella said. Wella also said it achieved an increase of 7.9 percent in sales to hairdressers despite a stagnating hairdressing market.
Sales of haircare products to retailers jumped 21.3 percent, well above expectations, Wella said. "Our new product concepts have been very well received worldwide," it said.
Sales of scents and cosmetics rose 12.4 percent in the first half due to successful product launches.
Domestic sales were 574 million marks ($385.4 million) versus 533 million ($357.8 million), while sales abroad rose to 1.24 billion marks ($832.5 million) from 1.1 billion ($738.5 million).
A Wella spokesman said the improvement in the first six months was due in part to Wella's foreign subsidiaries which managed to recover from losses posted last year in China, Russia and Britain.
German subsidiaries like Muelhens, the maker of the 4711 Eau de Cologne, improved sharply while Wella's core domestic business did not perform as well, the spokesman said.
That is reflected in figures for the parent company which reported its sales trimmed by 5.3 percent to 415 million marks ($278.6 million) while pre-tax profit was unchanged at 33 million marks ($22.2 million).
The Philippines' top military officer said on Tuesday Manila was exchanging intelligence information with the United States and other countries on potential terrorist threats to the APEC summit later this year.
"Certainly those countries going to APEC must exchange information and talk of possible security problems," Philippine armed forces chief General Arturo Enrile said in an interview at the end of a three-day visit to Singapore.
Manila is taking elaborate security precautions for the summit of leaders of the 18 members of the Asia-Pacific Economic Cooperation (APEC) forum when it is held in the Philippines this November. U.S. President Bill Clinton is expected to attend.
Enrile said among particular concerns were Islamic militant groups such as Hamas.
He said Hamas also has links with the radical Abu Sayyaf group responsible for a string of bomb attacks and the abduction of foreign priests and nuns in the southern Philippines.
"At the moment, we don't see them posing a threat because the security preparations have been very, very thorough," Enrile said.
The Philippines said on Monday it would deploy a force of 10,000 men picked from the army and police when the APEC leaders meet on November 25 at the former U.S. Subic naval base north of Manila.
APEC is a regional group which hopes to convert the Asia- Pacific region into a free trade zone.
The members are Australia, Brunei, Canada, Chile, China, Hong Kong, Indonesia, Japan, Malaysia, Mexico, New Zealand, Papua New Guinea, the Philippines, Singapore, Taiwan, Thailand and the United States.
CompuServe Corp said Tuesday it anticipates a second-quarter loss of about $0.10-$0.15 a share due to new product introductions.
The company said, as forecast earlier, that a decline in subscriber growth, investments in its WOW! service for novice users and infrastructure improvements hurt the first quarter.
Subscribers declined from the previous quarter as cancellations outpaced new subscribers, it said.
Cost cutting measures include the pending sale of its corporate computer software group of SPRY, Inc. It will also consolidate U.S. staff functions and offices, restructure some third-party customer service agreements and write off software costs for some systems no longer in use, it said.
The moves are designed to save $20 million in the rest of the current April-ending year and $30 million on an annualized basis.
Massey said most of the 150 job cuts have taken place. That amounts to about four percent of the workforce.
Massey said CompuServe is well positioned for substantial gains in the weeks and years ahead. International growth and additional revenue sources such as advertising, interchange and transaction fees should also contribute, CompuServe said.
"Coupled with new product releases and aggressive marketing campaigns, we expect the third and fourth quarters to improve with subscribers topping the seven million mark including our Japanese licensee service, NiftyServe," he said.
The Indian Oil Corp. (IOC) has tendered to buy one million barrels of crude oil for October, traders said on Tuesday.
The tender closes August 29 and offers should be valid until August 30, they said.
The tender covers a range of crude oil, including MidEast, Asian regional grades, North Sea and West African.
Traders said West African crude might be difficult to work into the Indian tender for October given the widening spread of Brent/Dubai.
Brent rallied in London on Monday with October gaining 30 cents to $20.85.
The October Brent/Dubai was notionally talked in Asia on Tuesday at $1.90/$2.00 per barrel, out from $1.70/$1.90 on Monday.
The Reserve Bank of Australia cut official interest rates by 50 basis points to 7.0 percent on July 31.
Treasury Peter Costello is due to hand down the 1996/97 budget at 7.30 p.m. (0930 GMT) and is expected to announce cuts of at least A$4.0 billion as the first stage of bringing the budget back into balance by 1998/99.
Sports outlets Intersport Schweiz AG, Camaro Sport AG and Zentrasport said they would merge into Intersport PSC Holding AG, creating Switzerland's largest sports retail organistion.
The three companies told a news conference they would control 40 percent of the Swiss sports market and have wholesale turnover of around 230 million Swiss francs.
The companies will merge management, administration, logistics and purchasing operations and Intersport PSC will start operating on December 1, 1996 and be fully operational by mid-1997.
Earlier today the shares of Intersport Holding AG were suspended on the Swiss Exchange ahead of the news conference.
Rating Announcement As of 08/15/96.
Health & Rehabilitation Svcs., Inc. Proj. rev. & rev. ref.
Some corn fields in eastern Indiana have not yet pollinated while there are soybean fields with pod-counts less than one-tenth the five-year average, participants in a four-day crop tour said.
Corn yield estimates on one of 14 tour routes ranged from zero in the fields that had not yet pollinated to just over 100 bushels an acre. The range was based on eight fields.
"If it frosts in the middle of November (not before) you might get a kernel," said Indiana ag statistician Bud Bever, after viewing a Jay county field. He noted that zero yield was likely if it frosts earlier than that.
The four-day tour was organized by Pro Farmer.
Participants said most soybean fields were beginning to pod but blooms were still visible on many.
Pod counts were taken in three foot by three foot square and ranged from 72 to 340 pods. The tour's five year average for this region was 1,153 pods.
Of the soybean fields toured Tuesday morning, Bever estimated the highest yield at 35 bushels an acre. Most fields ranged from 10 to 15 bushels an acre.
USDA estimated Indiana soybean yield at 35 bushels an acre, as of August 1.
"The fields we've seen are about as good as they will be on this side of the state," Bever said.
Corn borer infestation was detected in Wayne, Randolph and Wells counties, said John Turner, crop analyst with the U.S. Department of Agriculture.
"This field is well above the economic threshold," Turner said of a Randolph county field.
Borers were found in the base of stalks and in ears. Some stalks were so weakened by the pests they snapped when pushed. Turner noted some ears were drooping due to the borer activity but said it was too early to discount the grain.
Tour participants from the 14 routes will compile data from Ohio and Indiana fields Tuesday evening and will estimate corn yield and soybean population.
The tour concludes on Friday afternoon after also visiting Iowa, Illinois and Minnesota.
More than 50 participants including agronomists, farmers, analysts, USDA officials and journalists were on the tour.
Brazilian President Fernando Henrique Cardoso has signed a decree reducing to 35 percent the import tariffs on 50,000 cars to be imported from Japan, South Korea and the European Union over the next 12 months.
Japan, South Korea and the EU, as well as the United States and Canada have begun formal consultations at the World Trade Organization (WTO) arguing that a Brazilian regime for the auto industry is against WTO rules.
The decree "represents a pragmatic and acceptable solution to reduce differences of opinion over the basic points of the regime, under the ambit of the WTO," according to a copy of its text distributed to reporters late on Tuesday.
Last week, an official at Brasilia's Japanese Embassy said Japan was unsatisfied with terms now included in the decree.
Frederico Alves, executive secretary of the Brazilian government's Foreign Trade Chamber said the decree was a unilateral offer that could be revovked.
The decree concluded that the concession would be withdrawn if any member of the WTO decided to take their objections to the regime to a dispute-resolution stage.
Note: Full name of company is Siam Tyre Co Ltd.
The Commodity Credit Corp said on Tuesday it is seeking up to 33,000 tonnes of U.S. No.2 soft white wheat for donation to Bangladesh.
The shipment period is slated for September 10-October 5.
The CCC, which is part os the U.S. Department of Agriculture, said the wheat must be tested for vomitoxin with a maximum level of two parts per million.
The wheat must also originate in U.S. locations where Karnal Bunt (Tilletia Indica) is not known to occur.
Offers are due on August 27, it said.
Japan's diffusion index of leading economic indicators stood at 70.0 on a scale of 100 in June, the government's Economic Planning Agency said on Tuesday.
The index of coincident indicators, which measures current economic conditions, stood at 55.0 in June against 30.0 in May.
The index of lagging indicators, which traces economic trends in the past few months, was at 42.9 in June against 14.3 in May.
The index of leading indicators is closely watched as a barometer of trends in economic activity for the subsequent six months. A figure below the so-called "boom or bust" 50 mark is generally taken as suggesting the economy will contract in the coming months, while a figure above 50 suggests the economy will expand.
The index of leading indicators was above the 50 mark for the third month in a row in June.
The index of coincident indicators was above 50 in June for the first time in four months, while that of of lagging indicators was below 50 for the third month in a row.
The EPA said in a statement that the June indicators showed the economy was recovering.
South Africa's radical black Pan Africanist Congress (PAC) on Tuesday acknowledged that its guerrillas targeted white civilians but said it made no apologies.
PAC leader Clarence Makwetu told the Truth and Reconciliation Commission commission, headed by Archbishop Desmond Tutu, that the PAC regretted the 1993 killing of American student Amy Biehl in a black township outside Cape Town by youths allied to the organisation.
Discussing the activities of the PAC's armed wing, the Azanian People's Liberation Army (APLA), Makwetu said "a new pattern arose in the 1990s where civilians within the white community were attacked".
"The actual targets were decided by local commanders... operatives often made errors that APLA had earlier avoided."
Makwetu described the killing of civilians as "departures which we as political leaders who declared war must and do take responsibility for".
But he added: "We make no apologies. We have nothing to hide."
The Truth and Reconciliation Commission is hearing submissions this week from political parties aimed at giving a broad perspective of their activities during apartheid.
The PAC broke away from the African National Congress in 1959 but never achieved the mass appeal of President Nelson Mandela's party.
Less than two percent of South Africans voted for the PAC in the country's first all-race elections in April 1994.
Police blamed APLA for a series of bloody attacks in the years leading up to the election, including one on a Cape Town church service and others on white social gatherings.
Makwetu said the PAC objected to the format of the truth commission because "our people who were forced to fight a war of liberation are being made to appear on the same platform as their aggressors".
"Perpetrators of the apartheid crime against humanity as well as their victims are being equated," he said.
The right-wing Freedom Front made its presentation to the commission on Monday and the National Party, led by former white president F.W. de Klerk, is due to present its submission on Wednesday.
The indicative call rates are based on contributions from the ABN Amro, Andhra Bank, Bank of Baroda, Bank of India, Birla Capital AMC, Canara Bank, Centurion Bank, Citibank N.A., Corporation Bank, Discount and Finance House of India, Global Trust Bank, Industrial Credit and Investment Corporation of India (ICICI), Industrial Development Bank of India (IDBI), Indian Overseas Bank, Securities Trading Corporation of India (STCI), India (SBI), Standard Chartered Bank, Unit Trust of India (UTI) and UTI Bank.
The Bank of England invited UK money market operators to offer band 1 and 2 bills in exchange for cash and an unrestricted bill/FRG repo to 4 & 5 September to help alleviate a forecast 1.45 billion stg liquidity shortage in the market.
The South Korean won closed slightly lower against the dollar in tight trading on Tuesday as banks bought dollars to hedge their positions, brokers said.
Recent volatility and continued bullish sentiment toward the dollar made banks nervous about keeping short dollar position.
But fears that the central bank would sell dollars if the won fell below 820 kept that support line strong.
"Despite the central bank's huge supply of dollars into the market last week, customer demand for dollars was still very strong on Monday," said a European bank dealer. "I think the Bank of Korea will have to come in again in order to turn the dollar's trend around."
Some import settlements were also seen on Tuesday.
As the Korean Thanksgiving holiday approaches, dealers said the central bank was expected to keep a tight control on inflation, pressuring the dollar.
Swedish beverage can maker PLM AB on Tuesday posted an increase in profits for the first six months of 1996, saying the improvement would be maintained for the rest of the year.
PLM, which was split out of investment group Industrivarden in November last year, reported an increase of just 10 million crowns ($1.5 million) in earnings after financial items to 229 million crowns.
However, the bottle, can and plastics maker said profits for the second quarter in isolation had risen 14 percent to 167 million crowns.
This improvement would last for the rest of the year, the company said.
"Despite weaker market development in the early part of the summer, our existing forecast of a higher result after financial items for 1996 is unchanged," PLM said in its half-year report.
The company posted a 1995 profit after financial items of 519 million crowns.
In common with most Swedish exporters during the current interim report season, PLM said it had felt the effects of the stronger Swedish crown over the period.
Group sales, which fell slightly to 4.28 billion crowns for the first half year, would have increased by eight percent on the corresponding 1995 period at constant currency exchange rates, PLM said.
The weather was also partly to blame for the sales drop during the first six months, PLM said.
Biomira Inc and Neoprobe Corp said on Tuesday they signed a deal under which Biomira granted Neoprobe an exclusive worldwide license to use Biomira's radiolabeled murine monoclonal antibody MAb-170 in Neoprobe's RIGS technology for surgical detection of breast cancer.
Neoprobe plans to conduct a Phase I clinical trial involving up to 45 women who are undergoing breast conserving surgery, the company said.
In Neoprobe's RIGS approach, the Biomira antibody is injected into the patient before surgery.
It then attaches to the cancerous tissue and the surgeon uses Neoprobe's hand-held gamma-detecting probe to identify where the antibody has accumulated in diseased tissue which may not have been recognizable by touch or sight.
Neoprobe has received an upfront fee and will get milestone payments and royalties upon commercialization of a RIGS product using the Biomira molecule. Neoprobe has the option to license another Biomira molecule, MAb-174.
Israel said on Tuesday it would not redeploy its troops in the West Bank city of Hebron until the Palestinian Authority closed its offices in Arab East Jerusalem.
Under a peace accord with the PLO, Israel at the end of March was due to have redeployed its troops in Hebron, the last major Arab West Bank city still under Israeli control.
"We are demanding that Jerusalem offices be closed," Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu was quoted by an official as telling a closed-door session of Israel's Foreign Affairs and Defence Committee.
"(Palestinian President Yasser) Arafat himself promised to close two other offices but did not close them. Until they are closed there will be no progress, including on the issue of Hebron," the official quoted Netanyahu as saying.
Arafat adviser Ahmed Tibi told Israel Television on Tuesday that the Palestinian Authority was not operating offices out of Jerusalem.
Israel delayed its redeployment from Hebron after a spate of Moslem suicide bombings killed 59 people in Israel in February and March. Netanyahu, elected in May, has said he was examining the issue.
Palestinians view an Israeli troop withdrawal from Hebron as a litmus test for the peace process. Israeli troops are to remain in part of the city to guard some 400 Jewish living among the more than 100,000 Palestinians.
Israel occupied Arab East Jerusalem in the 1967 Middle East war and later annexed it, declaring both halves of the city its eternal capital. Palestinians view East Jerusalem as the capital of a future state.
The city's fate is up for negotiation in final peace talks which have yet to resume under Netanyahu.
Britain's largest mortgage lender Halifax Building Society said on Tuesday it believed any further cuts in official interest rates would be unlikely to provide any more help to Britain's slowly-reviving housing market.
"(A rate cut) would be more politically inspired than by the needs of the housing market," society chairman Jon Foulds said at Halifax's interim results briefing.
A general election must be held by May 1997.
Britain's official base rate is currently 5.75 percent and has been cut four times since December 1995.
"We believe that rates are the bottom of the trough," said Mike Blackburn, chief executive of the society, adding that even if rates were cut again financial markets expect them to start moving higher at the end of 1996.
The Australian Treasury will offer a total of A$1.4 billion of Treasury notes for tender on Wednesday, the Reserve Bank of Australia said.
The tender comprises A$200 million of five-week notes, A$400 million of 13-week notes and A$800 million of 26-week notes.
The RBA said it would take up an additional A$100 million of the five week notes and A$100 of the 13-week notes for its own portfolio.
The Treasury last week offered a total of A$700 million of notes, comprising A$300 million of 13-week notes and A$400 million of 26-week notes.
There are A$563 million of non-official holdings of T-notes maturing in the week ending August 21.
Philip Morris on Tuesday criticized the Kansas attorney general's decision to join a growing list of states filing lawsuits against tobacco firms, seeking to recover Medicaid money spent on tobacco-related illnesses.
Philip Morris said Kansas Attorney General Carla Stovall is seeking to use the courts to "legislate public policy on tobacco."
"In her zealousness to jump on the bandwagon, the attorney general has ignored the fact that the state has no viaable legal basis upon which to sue the cigarette manufacturers," said Gregory Little, a lawyer for Philip Morris.
"The law does not follow what is perceived by some to be politically correct, and ultimately the state of Kansas will lose and in the process waste millions of taxpayer dollars in time and costs," he added.
Yves Michot, the new chairman of France's state-owned aerospace group SNI Aerospatiale, expects the planned merger with combat plane maker Dassault Aviation could take place by mid-1997.
Business daily La Tribune Defosses in an interview with Michot quoted him as saying, "The new company will start life at by mid-1997 at the earliest, optimistically speaking, by the next Le Bourget (Paris) air show."
The government has asked for the Dassault merger to be agreed by January 1, 1997 but Michot thought legal formalities, such as the 45-day merger notice period, shareholder meetings and parliamentary and Privatisation Commission hearings, would take three to five months before the deal is completed.
Michot also wants to push ahead with planned missile and satellite joint ventures with Daimler-Benz Aerospace AG (Dasa), which have lost momentum recently. A meeting with Dasa chairman Manfred Bischoff in September should clarify the situation, the newspaper report said.
Cuts in the French and German defence budgets have weighed on these projects.
Michot is determined that a memorandum of understanding (MOU) on the conversion of Airbus Industrie from a partnership into a joint stock company should be completed by the end of this year, the newspaper reported.
Michot believed that France has played a major role in the Airbus conversion, contrary to conventional wisdom, and he wanted to keep up speed on the project, the report said.
The government named Michot as Aerospatiale chairman on August 7, after it moved his predecessor, Louis Gallois, to head the state-owned SNCF rail operator on July 24. Michot was previously managing director at Aerospatiale.
The Internet browser wars heated up Monday as market leader Netscape Communications Corp launched its latest Navigator software and officials of rival Microsoft Corp. said they saw little new.
Netscape, countering Microsoft's high-profile launch of its Internet Explorer 3.0 last week, said it had linked up with more than 20 content providers, including The New York Times and Sportsline USA, to offer tailored news and information to users.
Microsoft last week made a similar offer, saying that users who download its new browser would get free trial subscriptions to The Wall Street Journal Interactive Edition, ESPN SportsZone and other services.
While Netscape has a commanding lead in the growing browser market, with a share estimated at over 80 percent, industry analysts say Microsoft's latest software poses a threat to that dominance.
"I'd say at the very minimum Microsoft has leveled the playing field, and the real battle can now begin," said Adam Schoenfeld of the Jupiter Communications research firm.
Microsoft said more than 1 million users had downloaded its browser off the Internet since it became available last Tuesday.
Microsoft stock fell 75 cents to $123.50 a share, while Netscape dropped $2.375 to $36.50, its lowest close since October.
In launching the latest version of Navigator, Mountain View, Calif.-based Netscape highlighted a new electronic mail feature that will deliver information from selected content providers directly to the user's computer "in box."
The new software also offers enhanced audio, video and three-dimensional animation.
In a statement sent to reporters, Redmond, Wash.-based Microsoft called Netscape's new electronic mail feature "glorified junk mail" and said its own Internet Explorer offers faster access to multimedia clips.
On its World Wide Web site, Microsoft was less blunt but invited users to try both products and compare.
"We're confident that in this scenario Internet Explorer 3.0 will fare very well," Microsoft said in the Web statement.
Schoenfeld agreed, saying, "To the average user now, the products are probably indistinguishable in terms of quality."
Microsoft also pointed out that its product is free, while Netscape charges most users a $49 license fee after a free 90-day trial period.
While Navigator is available for a variety of computer platforms, the new version of Internet Explorer so far requires Microsoft's most recent operating systems, Windows 95 or Windows NT.
Microsoft officials said versions for previous versions of Windows and for Apple Computer Inc.'s Macintosh system were forthcoming.
Analysts said while the rapidly expanding Internet market was big enough for both players, Netscape was certain to see its share of the browser market diminish.
They said the browser war was likely to become even more intense when Microsoft unveiled its Internet Explorer version 4.0, expected early next year.
The new browser will be integrated into the Windows operating system, allowing users to "browse" through their local computer as well as the Internet.
"Netscape doesn't own the operating system, so it will be very difficult for them to counter that," said Michael Wallace of UBS Securities.
Smith Barney Inc.
Rauscher Pierce Refsnes, Inc.
South Korea is encouraging a depreciation of its currency to try to boost flagging exports, but the move could backfire and spark inflation, analysts said on Tuesday.
A lower won could also eat into corporate profits, they warned.
"It does look like the Koreans are forcing the won down very sharply, not especially against the U.S. dollar but rather the yen," Graham Courtney, an economist with SBC Warburg in Hong Kong, said in an interview with Reuters Financial Television (RFTV).
Andrew Holland, head of research at BZW Securities in Seoul, told RFTV a weaker won was not the miracle cure South Korea was looking for to cut its rising trade deficit and boost competitiveness against Japan.
The two analysts also said the South Korean stock market was expected to decline further.
"We expect more bad news. I don't think we've had all the bad news concerning the economy yet, and I think that will force the market down further," said Holland.
The composite stock index closed down 6.61 points to 793.91 on Tuesday.
While the finance ministry has officially stated that it has no intention of interfering in the currency market, foreign exchange dealers have said that, unofficially, it has encouraged a devaluation of the won.
The central Bank of Korea (BOK) allowed the won to fall to a six-year low of 826.10 against the dollar last week before stepping in to ease the local unit's decline, traders said.
The BOK has denied ever intervening in the interbank market.
The won closed at 819.70 against the U.S. dollar on Tuesday while the yen traded at 107.90 against the dollar.
"What they're doing at the moment is a messy intervention, and this could have implications regarding inflation later on," Holland said.
As the won falls against the dollar or yen, raw material imports necessary to feed growing exports would become more expensive, fuelling price increases.
New Finance Minister Han Seung-soo, appointed during a cabinet reshuffle on August 8, has repeatedly emphasised the government's commitment to keeping inflation in check. The central bank has forecast that inflation would remain at 4.5 percent this year.
"Producer prices do go straight up as the won goes down, particularly against the yen, but the Koreans have a history of managing to stop producer price pressures from coming through to the consumer price index," said Courtney.
"However, profits are likely to go out the window if the margins are squeezed even more by the fact that the pressures won't be passed on to the consumers," he added.
Mexican cement giant Cementos Mexicanos grabbed a bigger stake in Colombia's market Tuesday with the purchase of Industrias e Inversiones Samper in a deal worth more than $275 million, trading sources said.
Carlos Caballero, president of the Bogota stock exchange, said 275 million shares in the troubled Colombian cement maker, founded in 1909 and the country's oldest,  were sold at auction late Tuesday at $1.08 per share.
"It was Cemex," Caballero told Reuters in a telephone interview.
A spokesman at Cementos Diamante, another Colombian cement maker that Cemex purchased in May, declined immediate comment on the deal, saying only that a statement would be released later Tuesday.
Until Tuesday's sale, a 75 percent stake in Samper had been held by Colombian financier Luis Carlos Sarmiento Angulo.
Samper, which fell on economic hard times in the late 1970s, is currently protected from its creditors under Colombia's bankruptcy laws.
It reported 163.6 billion pesos in assets at the end of the first quarter, however, and a net profit of 1.6 billion pesos.
With Cemex's purchase, and earlier grab for Diamante, trading sources said the Mexican cement giant is now set to become a dominant player in the Colombian cement market, which has enormous potential for growth given the country's crumbling infrastructure and an expected surge in oil revenues next year.
The current slowdown in Colombia's construction industry is also widely expected to end next year.
-- Javier Mozzo, Bogota newsroom 571 6110473.
Mexico's same-day peso closed flat on Tuesday, giving up earlier gains when local banks dumped pesos upon deciding that the Cetes auction today would be too pricey, dealers said.
The same-day peso lost 0.05 of a centavo to 7.4725/7.4775 after having gained nearly a centavo in early trade.
Meanwhile, the 48- and 24-hour contracts also were flat. The 48-hour or spot peso was unchanged at 7.4690/7.4790 and the 24-hour peso 0.1 of a centavo better at 7.4650/7.4750.
"Some banks came in right before closing to offer pesos because people are starting to talk about a fall of 300 basis points in the (28-day) primary Cetes auction," one trader said. "They need to square positions."
The 28-day Cetes rate was expected to fall around 200 basis points at today's auction, but later outlooks for a steeper drop of up to 300 basis points were making some traders leery.
One-month paper was issued at 26.63 percent in last week's primary auction. If rates dip too much lower, banks may stand back altogether from the auction as yields are not appealing enough, dealers said.
Plains feedlot cattle markets Tuesday morning were stronger, with light sales at $67.00 per cwt, up $1.00 from a week ago, feedlot sources said.
About 500 head traded at $67.00 in Texas and western Oklahoma markets and about 600 sold in Kansas, they said.
However, the cattle were said to be of lesser quality than those that sold at $67.00 last week, sources said. Most feedlots were passing on further bids at the $67.00 level.
The prospect of $68.00 cattle was growing closer as more feedlots pass packer bids at $67.00 amid talk that several packers were short on cattle inventories and need to buy cattle, sources said.
"It looks like they're fixing to trade at $68.00, and once we get a few bids at that level, I think they (packers) will be buying cattle," a Kansas feedlot operator said.
There also was talk that at least one major packer had already paid $68.00 for about two thousand head in the Panhandle, but the sale was not reported yet, one market source said.
The Australian share market continued its climb at the opening on Tuesday with buying interest fuelled by expectations of a tight Federal budget from Treasurer Peter Costello later today.
The All Ordinaries index rose 13.2 points to 2,274.7, while September share index futures rose 11 points to 2,287, a 12.3 point premium to the underlying index.
The buoyancy of Monday afternoon had spilled over, with solid buying interest pushing the bourse to its highest level in nearly four months, brokers said.
"What people want from the budget is still pushing it. They expect Costello to be firm," said a Sydney broker.
With opening volume levels well up on recent starting levels, buyers had clearly jumped down from the fence they had occupied for the last week.
"Buyers from yesterday are still about and they have given it a bit of a go," the broker said.
The big banks remained in favour as did cylical stocks such as transport shares Brambles and Mayne Nickless.
Rises outnumbered falls by a ratio of about 14 to four, while about 41 percent of shares traded remained steady.
Straight run fuel oil lost a little bit of gloss on Tuesday as crude edged down.
Low sulphur was broadly unchanged with a cargo offered at $125 fob NWE and talk that it would be concluded around $124.
Last week's active buying cleared out several cargoes that threatened to create an overhang and traders see the sector as better balanced. Attention has started to widen beyond prompt cargoes. "If crude is tight a month out people will start buying straight run," said one dealer.
High sulphur was fairly thin balanced against quiet demand. E-4 were put at formula +$5.
If dining at Planet Hollywood made you feel like a movie star, now you can spend money like Arnold Schwarzenegger with a new credit card from the themed restaurant chain.
The fast growing company, whose outlets are festooned with kitsch movie memorabilia, has teamed up with the William Morris talent agency and MBNA America Bank of Wilmington, Del., to offer a credit card with appropriate Hollywood perks.
These include preferential seating in the restaurants, a limited edition T-shirt and discounts on food and merchandise, a statement said. Planet Hollywood joins other pop culture companies such as Rolling Stone magazine that are issuing branded credit cards that make going into debt more fun than usual.
Approved applicants don't have to pay an annual fee, and there's a special introductory annual percentage rate of 5.9 percent for balance transfers and cash advance checks. Orlando, Florida-based Planet Hollywood is part of Planet Hollywood International Inc.
Chrysler Corp. said Tuesday it plans to build a $315 million plant in Brazil and boost production at a plant being built in Argentina to expand its presence in South America.
The investment in Argentina will be $65 million, the nation's third-largest automaker said. The company has lagged behind rivals General Motors Corp. and Ford Motor Co. in expanding overseas.
The new Brazilian plant, which will be Chrysler's third in South America, will assemble the compact Dakota pickup truck for sale in Argentina, Brazil, Paraguay and Uruguay, the countries in the so-called Mercosur free-trade zone.
A site for the Brazilian plant will be selected by year-end and vehicles will roll of the assembly line starting in mid-1998, Chrysler said.
In Argentina, Chrysler will make the Jeep Cherokee at the plant under construction in Cordoba province starting in 1998, in addition to the Jeep Grand Cherokee starting next April.
"Our decision to manufacture in Brazil and expand production in Argentina is based on the favourable economic conditions and future growth prospects we see in the Mercosur," Chrysler Chairman Robert Eaton said in a statement.
The investments announced Tueday bring to $735 million the total financial commitments Chrysler has made in South America, the company said.
"With these new investments, we will substantially increase our sales in Mercosur," said Eaton. "The ultimate beneficiaries will be car buyers in the region who will have a bigger selection of Chrysler products available to them at better prices."
Chrysler also said the Detroit Diesel Corp., an engine supplier, will establish a new plant in Brazil to make engines for Dakotas built in Brazil and the Jeep Cherokees assembled in Argentina.
Chrysler recently redesigned the Dakota and plans to start selling it in the United States soon.
Chrysler stock rose 50 cents to $29 in afternoon trading on the New York Stock Exchange.
Swedish defence and technology group Celsius's Kockums units said on Tuesday that it is to concentrate all its military production in Karlskrona in southern Sweden.
Kockums said in a statement that the restructuring would involve cutting its workforce by 600, leaving a total of about 1,300 people still within Kockums.
Under the restructuring Kockum's production and maintenance of submarines and ships will be carried out at the one location.
"This decision has been made because of a defence decision and to adjust for the future," the company said in a statement.
However the submarine design division in Malmo will be organised as a separate division within Kockums AB while the Kockums Submarines Systems division will be phased out.
Celsius spokesman Lennart Jonsson told Reuters that Kockums has already reserved 600 million crowns for the restructure.
The changes will be carried out over a two year period.
Telecommunications carrier BellSouth Corp said it is interested in an alliance with Chilean cellular telephone operator Telecom which would extend the U.S. firm's mobile network throughout the country.
"It's clear that we have to increase our commercial relationship with Telecom," said Mauricio Wior, BellSouth's vice president for Latin America.
"We are interested in talking, but it is not a priority," said Wior.
Entel took control this month of Telecom, which operates services in the north and south of the country, when it bought an 18 percent stake in the company from Motorola Inc.
BellSouth, one of two major U.S. firms in the Chilean telecommunications market, has a concession covering Santiago and the central Fifth Region.
Wior said BellSouth would delay deciding future moves until Chile's Supreme Court has ruled over an appeal by cellular companies over regulations governing personal telephone concessions which the government plans to award this year.
The Singapore dollar remained on soft ground on Tuesday, despite news of an unexpected rise in the country's non-oil exports for July, dealers said.
The Trade Development Board said Singapore's non-oil domestic exports rose a nominal 6.4 percent year-on-year in July to Singapore $7.28 billion after falling 6.1 percent in June.
A Reuters poll of eight Singapore-based economists had predicted a nominal year-on-year fall of 1.7 percent in July.
The Singapore dollar strengthened briefly to 1.4095 against the U.S. dollar after the data was released, but soon slipped back and was quoted at 1.4110/15 in late afternoon trade.
"The market had turned short (against the U.S. dollar) and they are just buying it back," said a European bank dealer, adding that there were large U.S. dollar buy orders amounting to US$100 million to US$200 million in the market.
A local bank dealer said the U.S. dollar looked temporarily supported around S$1.4100 and was unlikely to weaken beyond S$1.4090 even if London players pushed it down.
Economists said the surprise rebound in July exports did not point to a long-term trend.
"I think we're going to have problems growing exports in the second half of this year. The slowdown we've seen will continue," Liew Yin Sze, head of Singapore research at J.M. Sassoon, told Reuters Financial Television.
He said the MAS could be expected to maintain its policy of keeping the Singapore dollar stable and easing cost pressures on companies operating in Singapore.
"From here till probably the second quarter of 1997, there's not likely to be much action on the Sing dollar," Liew said.
NOTE - Fujicopian Co Ltd is a leading developer and manufacturer of wide variety of recording printing media.
Indonesian tobacco tycoon Putera Sampoerna sharply raised on Tuesday his offer for Singapore's Transmarco Ltd as its share price surged, a move which dealers said was likely to make the bid successful.
Standard Chartered Merchant Bank Asia said on Tuesday that Miel Investment Corp, wholly owned by Sampoerna, had raised its takeover offer for Transmarco to Singapore $8.55 per share from S$6.50 bid at the weekend.
Transmarco, a trading and telecommunications firm, had suspended its share trading in mid-afternoon on Tuesday pending the announcement.
"It looks like Sampoerna is serious. I think he will be able to get more than 51 percent. Sukamto is likely to sell most of his stake to him as he might not be able to unload that much in the market," one head of institutional sales at a local brokerage told Reuters.
Indonesian-born Sukamto Sia garnered 55 percent of the company with a bid of S$6.50 per share in late 1994. He later stepped down as chairman and director and has since reduced his stake to 36.2 percent.
Shares on the Tallinn stock exchange were in lacklustre summertime mode on Tuesday, with volumes on the official list well down, traders said.
Overall turnover was just 2.9 million kroons and the Tallinn stock exchange index dipped slightly, 0.06 percent, to 96.03.
The largest turnover was in Forexbank, which traded around one million kroons worth of shares with its price easing to 77.30 kroons from 77.60 kroons.
Activity remained good on the free market, with Tallinn Pharmaceuticals again the star attraction. It traded 1.14 million kroons worth shares and climbed to 33.70 kroons from 32 kroons.
Other free market shares were quiet and overall turnover on the list was 1.71 million kroons.
NOTE: Q2 net loss due to higher bid and proposal activity, increased advertising expenses and lower margins on initial project sales.
Mongolian officials said on Tuesday they had controlled the spread of cholera, which has infected 106 people since an outbreak of the disease this month in the north of the country.
An additional 23 people were suspected of having the disease, pending laboratory test results, and a total of 1,955 people were in quarantine across the country, health officials said.
Mongolian Minister of Defence D. Dorligjav said officials had controlled the spread of cholera by imposing strict restrictions on travel.
"We have been able to restrict the spread of the disease," Dorligjav said in an interview.
Health officials said they believed the outbreak was not going to become an epidemic in densely populated areas like Ulan Bator, Darkhan and Erdenet.
Dorligjav commands civil defence troops that have sealed off the northern cities of Erdenet and Darkhan, Selenge province and parts of Central province since the disease broke out on August 8.
Officials were trying to evacuate foreigners trapped in quarantined areas, he said. About 30 foreigners have been evacuated from Erdenet by helicopter and more than 20 were to be evacuated from Darkhan.
Health officials have traced the virus back to a military unit in Khoetol, about 350 km (210 miles) from Ulan Bator. They believe it was spread through contaminated food.
"The bacteria has been found in the area where leftovers had been dumped... From there, the bacteria spread to a nearby lake," Dorligjav said.
He said the bacteria had probably been spread by foreign food since Mongolia had never had a cholera epidemic before.
Health Ministry officials said nine people in Ulan Bator were infected and 10 more suspected of having the disease, but the capital's hospital for infectious diseases said there were even more cases.
"We have 24 people taken into the wards suspected of having cholera. Of them, 12 have already been confirmed to have the disease," a hospital doctor said.
Police and soldiers guarded the capital's military hospital and the hospital for infectious diseases to enforce the quarantine.
Health officials on Tuesday imposed a quarantine on two more counties in Central province, which surrounds the capital.
The Tunisian Treasury on Tuesday said it sold 18.5 million dinars of two-year notes at its weekly auction on Aug 20.
It sold two-year note payable in equal annual tranches for 17 million dinars and two-year payable at maturity for 1.5 million dinars at a 9.000 percent yield both.
Banks bid for 67.5 million dinars for two-, four- and five-year notes at between 9.000 and 9.500 percent.
Sun International Hotels Ltd and Griffin Gaming & Entertainment Inc said on Tuesday that they clarified the merger terms that were announced yesterday.
The deal provides for each share of Griffin Gaming common stock to be exchanged for 0.4324 ordinary shares of Sun International.
Sun International, however, can terminate the deal if the price of Sun International shares falls below $41.625, unless Griffin Gaming agrees to accept a fixed exchange ratio of 0.4925 shares of Sun for each share of Griffin, the companies said. This detail was not mentioned in the company's announcement yesterday.
Sun International shares fell 3-5/8 points today to 48-1/8 on 505,000 shares traded. Griffin shares closed sharply higher at 19-3/8, up 7-1/8 points, setting a 52-week high on 582,600 shares traded.
Genetic tests on five British schoolboys showed none of them raped classmate Caroline Dickinson, who was sexually assaulted and killed on a trip to France last month, French investigators said on Tuesday.
A group of French police investigators, struggling for leads after freeing a Frenchman they said recanted a confession to Dickinson's murder, would continue questioning in Britain even though all DNA tests on teachers and classmates were negative.
The five boys were the only males staying at the youth hostel where 13-year-old Dickinson was raped and killed on July 18 who had not been given DNA tests in France because their parents' consent was needed.
The five final tests, carried out in Britain, were sent to France for analysis. The tests leave police with the theory that an intruder broke into the youth hostel during the night.
Dickinson was found dead in her bed by female classmates who shared a room with her the night she died in the village of Pleine-Fougeres in Brittany, north-west France. None of them noticed the killer.
Five French police arrived in Britain last week to quiz Dickinson's teachers and schoolmates who were in a 40-strong group from Launceston Community College in Cornwall visiting France.
Homeless Frenchman Patrice Pade, arrested soon after the crime, was released after DNA genetic tests showed he could not have committed the rape. French police said he recanted a confession to the murder.
Soon-to-be-floated Thistle Hotels Plc said on Tuesday it was appointing Hartley Sutcliffe finance director and intended to appoint Charles Mackay non-executive deputy chairman.
Sutcliffe joined the Thistle Group as treasurer in 1991.
Earlier, the group reported a first half profit -- before tax and an 87.8 million stg write-down charge -- of 24.1 million stg, 88.3 percent higher than last time.
Thistle said an external valuation of the company's properties had been carried out, valuing the portfolio at 1.69 billion stg. The valuation identified a deficit of 204.6 million stg compared with the values shown in the company's books.
The exceptional item reflected a reduction in value of certain properties below cost, and the balance of 116.8 million stg was deducted from a revaluation reserve, the group said.
Brazil's Committee of Monetary Policy (Copom) is to set September's Basic Interest Rate of the Central Bank (TBC) 10 days earlier than scheduled, a local financial newspaper said.
The TBC, which is used for the Central Bank's operations in the financial markets and is used as a reference rate for Central Bank rediscount lines and Proer credit lines, is adjusted every month and was first introduced in July.
Financial institutions were expecting September's TBC to be lower than the 1.9 percent in the previous two months, but news of Copom's earlier-than-scheduled meeting has raised expectations that the rate might remain unchanged, Gazeta said.
Japan is investigating reports that two Japanese fighter planes chased a Qantas airliner earlier this month, forcing it to take emergency evasive action, Defence Minister Hideo Usui said on Tuesday.
According to an Australian Broadcasting Corp (ABC) report, Qantas flight 22 from Tokyo to Sydney was tailed off Japan's Pacific coast on August 8.
The pilot saw on his radar that two Japanese fighters were tracking the Boeing 747 and pulled the plane into a steep ascent to avoid an incident, ABC radio reported.
Commenting on the report, officials of Japan's air force said there was no record of its fighters scrambling or taking emergency steps on that date and that there are no Japanese air force training zones along the route from Tokyo to Sydney.
The Ministry of Transportation said it had received a request from its Australian counterpart to investigate what the ministry called the "approach" of two fighters toward the Qantas jet, but said it was unable to confirm the origin of the planes.
The Qantas captain filed a report complaining of the intimidating behaviour of the Japanese fighter jets, ABC radio said.
The report comes as Japan's armed forces are working to overcome criticism for shooting down friendly aircraft twice in the past nine months.
In June a Japanese navy destroyer shot down a U.S. warplane during naval manoeuvres in the mid-Pacific near Hawaii.
The previous incident involving Japan's military happened last November, when a Japanese Air Force F-15 fighter shot down another Japanese F-15 during dogfight training in the Sea of Japan.
In both cases, the pilots were rescued unharmed.
The decision by the central bank's policy-making Federal Open Market Committee (FOMC) had been widely expected and left the key federal funds rate that commercial banks charge each other for overnight money unchanged at 5.25 percent.
"The Federal Open Market Committee meeting ended at 12:45 p.m (1645 GMT). There is no further announcement," central bank spokesman Joseph Coyne said in a brief statement.
After growing at its fastest pace in two years in the second quarter, the economy looks to have slowed recently as the housing market has weakened and retail sales have stalled.
"It's no surprise that the Federal Reserve felt justified sitting on its hands, since there have been so many mixed signals in the economy," Bill Cheney, chief economist at Boston-based John Hancock Financial Services, said.
Most analysts expect the economy to lose more momentum as the second half continues. But it remains an open question whether it will slow enough to keep inflation in check.
That means a precautionary rate rise is possible later in the year, once the Fed has more evidence in hand to help it measure how much the expansion is slowing, economists said.
More than half of 30 economists surveyed by Reuters last week forecast a rate increase by the end of the year.
"Fed officials would prefer not to act in the last month or two before the election if they can help it," Hancock's Cheney said. But he added that he believes the next rate move could just as well be down as up.
A rate rise ahead of the election would not be good news for President Clinton in his drive to win a second term, although it would likely have little immediate impact on an economy that still has considerable forward momentum.
The economy grew at a 4.2 percent annualized pace in the second quarter -- about twice the speed most economists reckon is sustainable on a long-term basis without fanning inflation.
And the jobs market has remained buoyant, putting extra money in workers' pockets and portending continued solid consumer spending.
The Fed holds its next policy-making FOMC meeting on September 24. Since cutting rates by one quarter of a percentage point in January, the central bank has held monetary policy steady as the economy first waned then waxed.
A British industry watchdog said on Tuesday it had been flooded with complaints about an advertising campaign that depicted opposition Labour leader Tony Blair with demonic eyes.
The Advertising Standards Authority (ASA) told Reuters it had received about 100 complaints and would decide in a few days whether the campaign broke rules that ban offensive ads and those that unfairly infringe on the privacy of public figures.
If the rules were breached by the ads, which were run by the incumbent Conservative Party in British newspapers this month, the ASA will ban the ads.
"The advertising industry itself doesn't want political advertising to degenerate into mud-slinging," an advertising industry source told Reuters.
The ASA has received written responses to the complaints from M&C Saatchi, the advertising agency that created the campaign and that was started last year by Maurice Saatchi and his brother, Charles.
The Saatchi brothers were ousted in December 1994 from Saatchi & Saatchi Advertising, which they formed in 1970.
The ads showed Tony Blair with a manic grin and red demonic eyes gleaming out from behind a black strip.
British newspapers this week quoted the actor whose eyes were used for the ads, Scott Woods, as saying he was upset about the campaign.
He told newspapers he had known photos of his eyes were being used for a Conservative Party campaign, but not that they would be used to make Blair look evil.
Woods, who specialises in playing serial killers, pirates and demons because of his mad, staring eyes, said he was a Labour supporter and planned to vote for Blair.
Poland's ombudsman on Tuesday challenged in court the government's handling of this year's tenders in which two international consortia gained licences to develop modern GSM cellular telephone networks.
Ombudsman Tadeusz Zielinski asked the Supreme Administrative Court to annul those terms of the licences which force the new cellular operators to use transmission facilities of state-owned telecommunications firm TPSA, he said in a statement.
The obligation violates the telecommunications and anti-trust laws, the ombudsman's spokesman Stanislaw Wilenski told Reuters.
"The licence prohibits using transmission lines other than those belonging to TPSA..., while there are at least three other enterprises which have transmission infrastructure," he said. "Thus TPSA's monopolist position was supported."
Apart from TPSA, transmission services can also be provided by the state-owned Polish Power Grid and the State Railways.
GSM licences were awarded in February to Polish and foreign consortia named  Polska Telefonia Komorkowa (PTC) and Polkomtel SA.
PTC groups, among other firms, Polish trading company Elektrim, US West of the United States and DeTeMobil, part of Deutsche Telekom.
Polkomtel comprises Polish firms including the copper combine KGHM and Petrochemia Plocka refinery as well as two major Western partners -- Tele Denmark and Air Touch.
Both companies plan to launch operations this year in some larger cities. They will compete with the current sole cellular operator Centertel SA, which uses an older analogue system.
Cambodian legislators on Tuesday passed a nationality law that is crucial for the holding of elections and could affect the status of minority groups.
Senior parliamentarian Son Soubert said passage of the law, which decides who can hold Cambodian citizenship, was vital.
"Otherwise we cannot discuss the electoral law...(and) the immigration law cannot be applied totally," he told Reuters.
The government has said all laws will be in place by the end of the year for the holding of local elections due in 1997 and general elections in 1998.
Son Soubert tried to dismiss fears that the government would use the immigration and nationality laws to expel tens of thousands of ethnic Vietnamese and other minority groups.
He said King Norodom Sihanouk had guaranteed that all those who could prove residence in Cambodia before a 1970 coup that ousted him from power should be allowed to stay.
Cambodia is home to around 100,000 ethnic Vietnamese, many of whom have been here for generations but fled persecution in the 1970s, often losing their documentation.
Some legislators, including Son Chhay of the Buddhist Liberal Democratic Party (BLDP), were concerned about an article allowing foreigners to buy citizenship for $400,000.
Businessmen from places such as Hong Kong, which reverts to China in 1997, will not have to meet residential qualifications necessary for others but must pass a language test.
"I'm worried that criminal people, people involved with the mafia and drug trafficking, will be willing to pay this money to use Cambodia as a scapegoat (for their crimes)," Son Chhay told Reuters.
Both Son Chhay and Son Soubert also said some foreign businessmen had improperly bought Cambodian identification under the previous government that let them buy property, but their status would be clarified under the new legislation.
If the law was fully implemented, "there's going to be quite a large number of these people jailed," Son Chhay said.
Son Soubert said most of Tuesday's session was spent discussing penalties for those using forged Cambodian passports or identification cards.
Legislators agreed to amend these articles to punish only foreigners using fake identification and hiked the proposed jail term to between five and 10 years from one to five years.
The assembly had on Monday dropped one controversial article which said naturalised Cambodians could lose their citizenship if they violated the constitution or other laws.
The law was tabled in June but parliamentarians had failed to complete debate when the National Assembly's three-month session ended in July. An extraordinary session was convened last week to finish the work.
Thai exporters on Tuesday welcomed Mexico's reported impending decision to lift a ban on Asian rice but said high Thai prices would delay their quick return to the Mexican market.
Trade and diplomatic sources said any Mexican move to end its four-year import embargo would benefit Vietnam more than other Asian producers.
A U.S. agriculture attache said on Monday there were indications Mexico would lift a phytosanitary ban on Asian rice soon and he expected such a move could hurt U.S. rice exports to Mexico.
"It is good news but to what extent we can re-enter the market is another matter. Current steep Thai prices would make our rice relatively uncompetitive," said Somboon Phtaichan, manager of the Thai Rice Exporters Association.
Somboon said Thailand had gained a share of the Mexican market before 1992 because its rice then was $20-30 a tonne cheaper than U.S. rice.
Mexico bought about 40,000 tonnes of medium grade 10-15 percent Thai white rice a year before the 1992 ban, which affected other Asian producers including Vietnam, China and Indonesia.
Traders said the distance between Thailand and Mexico made it difficult for Thai rice to compete with U.S. grains.
"It would be tough to compete with U.S. rice which can just be trucked across the Mexican border from Texas or Arkansas," a major Thai exporter said.
Mexico imposed the 1992 ban after it said some Asian shipments were contaminated with bacteria and insects.
Thailand, the world biggest exporter, has protested against the Mexican embargo.
Arun Anprasertporn, agricultural services manager of cargo surveyor firm SGS Far East Ltd, said it was standard practice for Thai export shipments to all destinations to be fumigated against insects and bacteria.
"Our fumigation is effective in killing any hidden insects in the first two days and there should not be any question of shipments being re-infested during long journeys," he said.
Thai traders said the underlying cause of the 1992 Mexican ban stemmed from substantially low prices offered by Vietnam in the early 1990s that heavily undercut U.S. rice sold to Mexico.
"It is not the question of more exports that Thailand will benefit from a lifting of the ban. Renewed imports from Thailand would not change our bilateral trade picture. What Thailand will gain, however, is its reputation," a Mexican trade attache said.
Somboon of the exporters assocation said that Thailand, forecast to export more than five million tonnes this year, regarded Latin America as its new rice market.
He said Peru topped the list of South American buyers of Thai rice this year by importing 45,600 tonnes during January/June, followed by Chile which bought about 1,000 tonnes.
Hurricane Dolly forced the closure of 29 Mexican ports, largely just to small vessels, the Communications and Transport Ministry said Tuesday.
The ministry said the ports closed included five in Tabasco states, seven in Campeche, 10 in Yucatan and seven in Quintana Roo. It did not name the ports.
--Chris Aspin, Mexico City newsroom (525) 7289530.
These indicative rates are based on contributions from ABN Amro, ANZ Grindlays, Andhra Bank, Bank of America, Canara Bank,Citibank, Credit Lyonnais, Deutsche Bank, Dresdner Bank, Global Trust Bank, HDFC Bank, Hongkong Bank, L.C.Raheja, Mashreq Bank, Nucleus Securities, Societe Generale, Standard Chartered Bank, State Bank of India - Calcutta, Syndicate Bank.
U.S. rail and truck cash soymeal basis offers were little changed Tuesday as more processors switched their offers to the September CBOT contract from the August, cash soymeal brokers said.
The switch to September had the effect of lowering offers at some locations where sellers didn't compensate for the nearly $6.00 spread between the two contracts.
Sellers made the move because Wednesday is the last trading day for the August contract.
Buying interest was low. "It's been slow," a Minnesota broker said. "Everything's hand to mouth."
The export market remained flat, with one broker reporting four or five barges traded on Monday, but no major business on the horizon.
President Clinton signed a minimum wage bill that includes provisions of interest to the municipal bond market.
The U.S. tax code includes a little-known provision that permits issuance of small industrial development bonds for first-time farmers.
Another current tax code provision lets investor-owned utilities issue tax-exempt bonds as long as the facilities operate in an area no larger than two continguous counties.
Previously, if a utility wanted to expand beyond two counties, all its outstanding tax-exempt bonds would become taxable.
"We're pleased with what's in the bill, but we're also pleased with what's not in it," John Vogt, senior vice president for the Public Securities Association (PSA) said in a telephone interview.
He was referring to the fact that today's bill does not include Clinton's controversial proposal to repeal the two percent "de minimis" rule on corporate holdings of tax exempts.
But Vogt said the municipal bond industry's battle over de-minimis is far from over.
"All indications from the Administration have been that they will repropose those tax increases in their next budget," Vogt said.
The U.S. Pension Benefit Guaranty Corporation Tuesday cleared the way for Keystone Consolidated Industries Inc. of Dallas to acquire DeSoto Inc. Of Joliet, Ill.
The PBGC said the acquisition will give a substantial boost to Keystone's underfunded pension plans.
"This transaction will insure that the pensions of Keystone's workers and retirees remain protected," PBGC Executive Director Martin Slate said in a statement.
Keystone, a producer of fencing and wire products, is on the PBGC's list of 50 companies with the largest underfunded pension plans. The company needed the agency's okay to borrow the money needed for acquiring DeSoto, which produces household cleaning products, the PBGC said.
The PBGC said Keystone's pension plans were underfunded by $84 million in 1994, while DeSoto's plan is overfunded.
After the merger, Keystone's four pension plans will go from being 57 percent funded to about 90 percent funded, the PBGC said.
The Australian share market ended just firmer on Tuesday and well off its highs as cautious players cashed in gains ahead of the Federal budget, due later today at 7.30 p.m. (0930 GMT).
At 4.10 p.m. (0610 GMT), the All Ordinaries index was up 3.2 points at 2,264.7 while September share index futures were up seven points at 2,283, an 18.3 point premium to the underlying index.
"The sellers took over in the afternoon. People are getting careful before the release of the actual figures," said a Sydney broker.
"No-one wants to be too brave so you've seen some profit taking after a strong couple of days."
The afternoon losses were spread around, resulting in a mixed bag of closes among the leaders.
"It was mixed at the end but all were well off highs at the end," the broker said.
Interest rate sensitive stocks like banks and insurers climbed early but fell back to with the rest of the market in the afternoon session.
Rises outnumbered falls by a ratio of about five to three, while about 31 percent of stocks traded remained steady.
In other local markets, bonds eased back from the day's highs amid some profit-taking after a steep rally had taken yields to the lowest level since March 1994.
The Australian dollar slipped a touch in the afternoon, reversing early buoyancy as market participants squared positions ahead of the budget.
At 4.55 p.m. (0655 GMT) the local currency was at US$0.7875/80, below Monday's late US$0.7878/83 level and resting on a technical support level at US$0.7880.
FUTURES/OPTIONS - Futures trading was at active levels with an extended trading session due to the budget. Options trade picked up but was otherwise unremarkable.
*Nat Aust Bnk A$12.55 (-.03) 12.53/12.70 Vol:4,726,897 *ComBank A$11.05 (+.06) 11.02/11.11 Vol: 3,571,946 *Westpac A$6.04 (+.04) 6.011/6.10 Vol: 3,339,805 *ANZ Bank A$6.64 (+.01) 6.61/6.70 Vol: 3,480,216 Banks star early on budget hopes but fall back to earth.
*News Corp A$6.46 (-.04) 6.46/6.51 Vol: 3,289,046 U.S-biased media major softens with market in afternoon.
*BHP A$17.50 (-.04) 17.50/17.75 Vol: 7,175,078 Bellwether sees sellers after early surge.
*CRA A$19.42 (+.05) 19.35/19.50 Vol: 1,412,654 Major miner ends at midday levels despite afternoon dip.
*WMC A$8.75 (+.08) 8.68/8.81 Vol: 4,008,123 Gold/nickel miner ends firmer, completes mixed bag of leaders.
Malta's Mid-Med Bank and the Malta Union of Bank Employees have agreed to return to the negotiating table after a bruising two-week industrial dispute which led to a two-day strike.
The dispute arose over renewal of a collective agreement on working conditions. The union said the bank's proposals for a new agreement were "morally reprehensible" and had been refusing to meet the bank.
The two sides held a conciliation meeting before the chairman of an industrial tribunal on Monday when they decided to withdraw all their proposals and start from scratch. The union said it was lifting all industrial actions.
Bank workers went on strike on Friday and Saturday.
The workers had also been opening branches late and refusing to service cash machines. Mid-Med Bank is Malta's largest bank and the only commercial bank where government has a controlling stake.
Moody's Investors Service said on Tuesday that it had assigned its Ba2 rating to Suntory Ltd's 10 billion yen worth of Japanese domestic bonds due 2001.
Moody's also assigned the same rating to Suntory's Euro medium term note (MTN) programme jointly run by its unit Suntory Capital Inc, under which the issuers may issue notes up to a maximum aggregate amount of $1.0 billion.
It expects Japan's distilled spirits market, Suntory's mainline business, to stay sluggish and returns from the firm's beer business will remain unimpressive. Thus, improvements in Suntory's capital structure are likely to take time, it said.
Fleet Financial Group and National Westminster Bank PLC said Tuesday they have signed an agreement that will allow both companies to provide banking services to corporate customers in the United Kingdom and the United States.
Under the agreement, NatWest will set up a representative office in Boston to provide Sterling and foreign currency account and cash management services to American companies that either have a physical presence in the UK or trade there.
Fleet will provide US Dollar accounts and cash management services to the US subsidiaries and offices of UK-headquartered companies.  Fleet currently markets US cash management services directly to UK companies from its office in London.
"This agreement is a milestone in making global banking services more readily available, for our customers," said Fleet Financial Group President and Chief Executive Terrence Murray. "It goes beyond existing banking alliances between American and European banks by giving Fleet and NatWest customers access to a full range of international banking services including extensive branch networks in the US, UK and Ireland."
NatWest Chief Executive Bernard Horn said believes the banks' "combined strengths in market knowledge, product technology and customer service will ensure that our customers are provided with an unrivaled product. We can now offer our customers a wider and more sophisticated range of services in the US than previously was available."
NatWest supplies commercial banking services to about one-third of the companies in the UK and is the second largest retail bank in the UK with over 2,000 branches.
Note: The daily hog price is in Canadian dollars per 100 kg, based on average of paid packer prices obtained from Schneider Corp, Burns Meats Ltd., Spring Hill Farms and Jack Forgan Meat Ltd. Basic dressed weight is 75-89 kg.
NOTE - Print and packaging firm Clondalkin Group Plc said on Tuesday that it was well placed to maintain progress in all its activities.
The group said its Irish operations continued to improve with profit growth evenly spread between printing and packaging.
In Britain, profits more than doubled because of the inclusion of the Boxes Group, acquired in September 1995, and because of strong organic growth in the print operations.
Strong profit improvement in the Netherlands counteracted a profit decline in Switzerland where market conditions remain difficult, Clondalkin said. In the U.S., the packaging operations reported the strongest increase.
Clondalkin said it is well balanced in terms of profit mix by currency and exchange rate movements did not materially affect reported earnings per share.
Some of Japan's major trust banks, hit by deteriorating asset quality and growing competition, are expected to require external support, Moody's Investors Service said in a report on Tuesday.
Moody's currently rates the long- and short-term deposits of Japan's seven biggest trust banks and Daiwa Bank Ltd, the only city bank allowed to engage in commercial and trust banking. It also rates the banks' financial strength.
An official of the rating agency gave a bank financial strength rating (BFSR) of E to Chuo Trust & Banking Co Ltd and Yasuda Trust & Banking Co Ltd, meaning they possess very weak intrinsic financial strength.
Despite having disposed of massive problem loans and posted credit expenses in the fiscal 1995/96 year ended March 31, non-performing loans at the trust banks will remain on their balance sheets, and "trust sales of real estate collateral continue to be difficult and time consuming", Moody's said.
"The banks are experiencing substantial pressure on their capital, and the true magnitude of the problem is not yet reflected in officially disclosed non-performing loan statistics," it said. Moody's also said that trust assets under discretionary management, particularly pension trusts, will grow, but will not be a significant contributor to earnings.
Standard and Poor's said on Tuesday it had assigned its AA minus claims-paying ability rating across the operating entities of the new Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Group.
"Offsetting this to a degree is the initial disruption to activities that can be expected over the next two years as the new operating structure is implemented," S&P said.
"Management will need to keep close control of the integration process whilst continuing to focus on the longer term strategic direction of the new company."
Shares in Pearson stumbled as investors took profits after a recent run-up, traders said.
Profit-taking in the shares -- which gained about 12.5 percent during the first two weeks of August -- may have been sparked by worries that rising paper prices will squeeze Pearson's profits, said one trader.
An analyst suggested that there may have been a bit of switching today and Monday from Pearson's shares into EMI shares, which began trading as a separately listed company on Monday. Shares in EMI were up another 24p to 1484p.
The downside in Pearson, the analyst added, is likely to be limited by recurring speculation about a breakup or a bid.
German utility group Viag AG said on Tuesday that its operating profit rose 10 percent in the first six months of 1996.
The group did not provide an absolute or comparative figure.
The Australian dollar and bonds both went into quick retreat on Tuesday amid mild disappointment that the maiden budget by Australia's conservative government was not as tough as the markets had been led to believe.
Within an hour of the budget being announced on Tuesday night the dollar had sunk to US$0.7860/0.7865 from a pre-budget US$0.7883/88, while long dated bond yields rose some eight basis points taking the November 2006 bond back up to 8.0 percent.
"It wasn't a complete disappointment, but this is the first of supposedly extremely tough budgets and it doesn't quite live up to expectations," said UBS chief economist Stephen Roberts.
The treasurer announced an underlying budget deficit of A$5.65 billion (US$4.46 billion) and a headline budget surplus of A$474 million for 1996/97 after savings of A$3.9 billion.
Median forecasts had centred on an underlying deficit of A$4.9 billion and a headline surplus of A$1.0 billion.
A total borrowing requirement of A$7.0 billion for 1996/97 was also larger than some analysts had expected.
The local bond market had rallied strongly in recent days in anticipation of a fiscal squeeze in the first conservative government budget in 14 years, but had been looking for cuts of over A$4.0 billion to maintain the momentum that had taken yields to their lowest level since March 1994.
The local dollar also lost its gloss after advancing to a three-week high of US$0.7933 at the start of the day amid repeated comments by the five-month-old government that the budget would pave the way for further cuts in interest rates.
"If we can get our budget, intact, through the Senate, if we can get that low inflation locked in, then I think we can set up the chances for an easing in monetary policy," Costello said.
The dollar had slid to US$0.7700 after last month's surprise 50 basis points cut in official interest rates to 7.0 percent as it eroded the currency's yield advantage, and there are fears that a further reduction could see it fall to US$0.7600.
"The next hurdle is going to be the passage of the budget through the Senate," said Bruce Freeland, chief economist at Commonwealth Bank of Australia. "Difficulties in passing the budget have previously led to downward pressure on the Australian dollar and higher bond yields."
However, he added that recent statements by the minor parties in the Senate would seem to reduce the probability of the budget being blocked in the upper house.
The budget also painted a rosy outlook for the economy with growth forecast to average 3.5 percent over 1996/97 and underlying inflation at 2.75 percent.
"It is probably mildly bearish for the markets because it was such a favourable economic outlook, rather than any failure on the fiscal tightening...," said Stephen Koukoulas, senior economist at Citibank Australia.
NOTE - Mycal Corporation is a major supermarket chain.
The following are top headlines from selected  Canadian newspapers. Reuters has not verified these stories and does not vouch for their accuracy.
- Ontario, Alberta take aim at Ottawa: In informal alliance, provinces will push for decentralization of social policy, other shifts in power. Indications of an informal alliance between Ontario's Harris government and Alberta's Klein government are the talk of the country's premiers as they gather for their annual meeting.
- Quebec cement firms socked: C$5.8-million fine over price-fixing. A Quebec Superior Court judge has slapped a C$5.8 million fine on four cement companies, including three of the industry's largest players, for conspiring to fix prices in the Quebec City area.
- Changing system, loss of status angers doctors: Government regulation of profession at heart of dispute threatening strike.
- Canadian Health Minister David Dingwall rejects privatizing medicine: Ottawa stresses one tier of health care as Canadian Medical Association faces vote on extra charges.
- Monarchy ponders overhaul: Self-financing, 'streamlined' Royal Family being considered.
- Bombardier Inc snags crucial deal: US$320-million Canadair contract keeps order book full, avoids production cutbacks.
- Electric cars fuel utility headache: Recent tests by General Motors in Vancouver highlight that insufficient power supplies is just one of the potential problems -- and costs -- of the rechargeable vehicles.
- Acco World Corp woos Advanced Gravis Computer Technology Ltd; Board recommends acceptance of C$8.9-million cash offer.
- Battle over local phone service begins: Canadian Radio-television and Telecommunications Commission setting rules for competition.
- Talks aim to save Telsat deal: A new U.S.-Mexico satellite-TV agreement is the model as Ottawa and Washington try to hammer out a pact that would allow Telesat to point its signals at the U.S. market.
- Clearly Canadian Beverages Corp fails to bottle up Sun-Rype Products Ltd.
Sweeping changes to the future shape and political balance of Formula One, including the abolition of Friday practice sessions, were announced by the International Automobile Federation (FIA) on Tuesday.
The FIA said the changes were part of a package of alterations made to the new Concorde Agreement -- a formal accord between the sport's governing body and some of the teams -- to run from 1997 to 2001.
Changes include an agreement by the teams to stay in Formula One until 2001, a guarantee of 20-car grids, a 17-race season and the scrapping of Friday practice.
The FIA also said the teams would in future accept an 80 percent majority instead of unanimous agreement for any sporting or technical changes and would agree not to test anywhere in the week before a race or between the end of the season, usually October or November, and December 1.
A new system of prize money allocation had been introduced to distribute evenly the vast amounts of television income generated by the sport.
Three teams appear to be unhappy with the new deal. McLaren and Tyrrell refused to sign the proposal and Williams withdrew from agreeing to it on August 2.
The lack of support of these world championship-winning teams suggested that they could cause political problems for the sport which might even lead to their non-participation in the future.
Even though they were not signatories they would be allowed to compete with the consent of the Formula One Commission.
It is believed that the three very experienced teams, with a total of 1,178 grands prix behind them in the last 30 years, objected to the loss of Friday's practice on safety grounds. They argued that it was necessary to have a day in which to set cars up correctly for both qualifying and racing.
WASHINGTON - FBI plans to nearly double its presence overseas during the next four years, opening offices in 23 foreign cities.
WASHINGTON - "Dole Inc.": select donors have long bankrolled longtime Senate power Bob Dole, now the Republican presidential nominee.
LITTLE ROCK, Ark. - Former Arkansas Governor Jim Guy Tucker received a four-year suspended sentence on Whitewater-related charges.
WASHINGTON - Billionaire Ross Perot, changing his tune on using federal funds to finance his third party presidential campaign, is eligible for nearly $30 million in public funds.
WASHINGTON - Prince George County, Maryland, prisoner found toed to pole in neighboring Montgomery County.
NOTE - Kaneshita Constructon Co Ltd is a medium-scale general contractor.
Sprint Corp. Tuesday announced plans to offer Internet access to consumers, jumping into the market to help millions of homes go online after similar moves by rivals AT&T and MCI.
Kansas City, Mo.-based Sprint, which has operated a big chunk of the Internet for American businesses since 1992, said it would offer the service for free to 200,000 of its existing telephone customers until it is introduced widely in the fall.
After that, consumers will be able to choose a flat rate of $19.95 a month for unlimited access, or $1.50 an hour with no minimum or maximum usage requirement, the nation's third-largest long-distance company said.
"We've been in the Internet, in fact profitable and making money in the Internet business, longer than anybody," said Jim Dodd, vice president of Internet Access Services for Sprint.
Industry analysts said Sprint took its time getting into the consumer side of the Internet access business to avoid some of the service glitches that have hurt its larger rivals.
"Some others got not very good press," said Bette Massick Colombo at Bear Stearns & Co. "The fact that they are taking their time is okay. I don't think they've lost ground."
Sprint said the service, dubbed Sprint Internet Passport, will provide around-the-clock access to the global computer network with a local phone call in 212 cities to start, and in more than 300 cities by year-end.
The offering compares with the services rolled out by AT&T Corp. and MCI Communications Corp. as well as regional Bell operating companies earlier this year.
AT&T's entry into the market, which included some free access time, sparked a flurry of competition that sent shockwaves through the consumer Internet access business.
Sprint's service initially will support only the Netscape Navigator search software, but Dodd said the company was taking with Microsoft about including its Explorer "browser" software as well.
"In our first release we won't support the Microsoft browser, but we expect them to be a part of our service shortly," Dodd said.
In 1992, Sprint became the first long-distance company to offer commercial Internet service, and now offers access to more than 1,000 Internet service providers and to a host of other businesses. Sprint also provides on-line access for most major proprietary online services.
Sprint has $12.8 billion in annual revenues and serves more than 15 million business and residential customers.
It said its offerings would also include Netscape Navigator, a rebate certificate for a high-speed modem, access speeds of up to 14.4 and 28.8 kilobits per second, a dedicated Web site with e-mail, news, directory and search services, and technical support online or through a toll-free 800 number.
Credit card billing will be offered.
Sprint stock fell 50 cents to $39 on the New York Stock Exchange.
Fruehauf Trailer Corp said Tuesday its president and chief executive officer Thomas Roller had resigned to become president and CEO of Wolverine Tube Inc .
Roller's resignation is effective September 15.
Fruehauf said a successor had not yet been named.
"While I very much regret leaving Fruehauf, I do so knowing that the company has a strong management team and many fine employees who will continue to pursue the initiatives which are under way," Roller said in a company statement.
A member of Australia's Labor Party opposition said he quit the party on Tuesday in a move that could affect government efforts to pass legislation through parliament's upper house, the Senate.
"It is my intention to complete my present term in the Senate as an independent," Colston said in a statement.
"My voting pattern in that chamber will be influenced by my long held Labor beliefs, by an acceptance that the present government has an electoral mandate to pursue a number of issues and by what I judge to be the most appropriate course of action for the people of Queensland (state)," he said.
The new conservative Liberal-National government elected in March does not have a majority in the Senate and needs support of at least two non-government senators to pass legislation.
Prime Minister John Howard, pointing to his landslide election win, has claimed a strong mandate from the electorate for several controversial moves, including selling one-third of government telecoms giant Telstra Corp.
The Labor opposition and minor parties holding the Senate balance of power have pleged to block some of the government reforms, including the partial Telstra privatisation.
Talk about potential warmer weather next week in the U.S. Midwest rather than colder, pressured CBOT corn futures to a lower close, traders said.
"Warmer temperatures are coming, supposedly," a trader said.
Meteorologists early Tuesday said weather maps now indicate warm weather will remain in the U.S. Midwest through next week. That scenario is in contrast to Monday's forecasts for a potential cool down in key U.S. corn growing states.
Corn futures trading was unsettled amid the uncertainty about weather outlooks.
The U.S. corn crop needs warm weather to boost the maturity pace which is lagging the year-ago and average rate.
USDA Monday said the U.S. crop as of Sunday was in the dough stage of development on 37 percent of the acreage, behind the 43 percent pace a year ago and behind the 55 percent pace of a year ago.
The government also cited a decline in condition ratings for the crop with 62 percent of the crop good to excellent as of Sunday down from 64 percent in that category a week ago.
Corn closed 3-1/2 cents per bushel lower to one cent higher, with September down 1-3/4 at $3.62-1/4.
Traders said corn may have been underpinned by a rally in soybeans plus indications of possible low corn yields in parts of Indiana relayed by participants of this week's Professional Farmers of America crop tour.
But traders said the tour Tuesday was in the eastern growing region of the U.S. where it has been expected that corn yields would not come up to average levels.
Corn futures volume was estimated at 47,000, down from 59,214 Monday.
Corn options trading again was quiet with volume estimated at 11,000, down from 15,536 Monday.
Turnover on the Latvian stock exchange fell at Tuesday's session but leading bank Unibanka continued to gain, the Riga stock exchange said.
Total turnover was just 45,226 lats, versus more than 90,000 lats at the last session.
Unibanka, making turnover of 39,341 lats, rose to 1.74 lats from 1.67 lats.
The other stock on the market's official list, Riga Transport Fleet, had turnover of 1,685 lats and its price rose slightly to 66 santimes from 65 santimes.
There was no trade in the newly-listed Treasury bills.
On the second list, fish cannery Kaija again stood out, notching up deals worth 3,936 lats. Its price rose slightly to 33 santimes from 30 santimes.
Other shares on the secondary list were quiet.
Shenzhen-listed air-conditioner maker Guangdong Meide Holdings Co Ltd said on Tuesday its first half net 1996 profits fell to 68.79 million yuan from 98.28 million yuan last year.
The company said in an interim report in the Shenzhen-based Securities Times that according to Chinese accounting standards, main operating income totalled 1.67 billion yuan against 1.03 billion yuan a year earlier.
Meide blamed the earnings plunge on sharper competition which forced it to reduce prices on a range of products.
But it said, sales of air conditioners had risen 70 percent in the first half and expects higher production and sales of electric fans and cooking appliances to result in improved profits for 1996.
More than 200 jobs will go when the Wellington region's two power companies merge, chief executive designate of the merged group Mike Underhill said in an interview on Wednesday with the Evening Post newspaper.
Underhill, who will head the new merged company TransAlta New Zealand Ltd, confirmed he has told staff to expect 40 percent redundancies if, as expected, EnergyDirect shareholders agree to the merger with Capital Power.
The shareholders are due to meet on September 12 to consider the merger, which would be effective from October 1 if approved.
"There aren't any obvious areas where it would be double that or half that,"  he said.
EnergyDirect and Capital Power have 530 staff between them.  A 40 percent cut would reduce that by about 212. Most staff would know within three months how many jobs would remain in their departments.
EnergyDirect is 41 percent owned by Canadian company TransAlta and 20 percent owned by community trusts which have said that they support the merger. Capital Power is owned by TransAlta.
NOTE: Operating losses at the company's new Shafter, Calif., plant, together with non-recurring charges related to the adoption of FAS No.121 of about $0.08 per share, reduced net income by about $0.20 per share in Q4 1996.
For the fiscal year 1996, operating losses reduced net income by about $0.30 per share, and non-recurring charges related to the adoption of FAS No.121 reduced net income by about $0.11 per share.
Northrop Grumman Corp on Tuesday said it filed an official protest over the U.S. Air Force's decision to award a $620 million contract to rival defense firm Raytheon Co.
In a statement, the Los Angeles-based military manufacturer said the protest was filed on Monday with the General Accounting Office.
The protest involves a 11-year contract to build 213 Digital Airport Surveillance Radar Systems for the U.S. government. The Air Force awarded the contract to Raytheon earlier this month.
Based on a debriefing received last week, Northrop said it found "errors" and "inconsistencies" in the evaluation process that made it believe it should have been selected for the contract because its offering "provides the best value for the U.S. government."
"We do not understand the basis for the selection given that the government reported we met or exceeded all requirements for the system, with demonstrated past performance," the company said.
British broad money supply made a welcome return inside the government's monitoring range in July but it will give Chancellor Clarke only a shred of support if he is seeking to cut rates on September, analysts said.
"This only helps Clarke only at the absolute margin," said Kevin Darlington, UK economist at ABN-AMRO Hoare Govett. "It is only one month's figures, it is still very high within the monitoring range and it has been downgraded as an indicator."
The government's monitoring range for broad money is three to nine percent and M4 growth has been above the nine percent upper limit since November 1995.
Minutes of monthly monetary meetings show the both Clarke and Governor of the Bank of England Eddie George are concerned that M4 is so strong but Darlington said since base rates have been cut four times in that period, broad money has clearly been relegated to the second division of indicators.
These include the rash of merger activity in the financial sector and the start of an open gilt repo market in January.
The large drop in year-on-year M4 growth in July is partly attributable to last July's purchase of the Cheltenham & Gloucester building society by the Lloyds TSB group.
A surplus on the government's PSBR account during July also helped depress the level.
An incomplete breakdown of the lending figures produced by the British Bankers' Association shows consumer credit was up 539 million stg, nearly double the June figure of 226 million stg rise.
"This suggests that there may be some upside to July's retail sales figures. If so then the chances of another rate cut look remote," Hawkins said. July retail sales data are due on Wednesday and forecast to show only a small 0.1 percent rise.
"It is very finely poised. I wouldn't be surprised if we get another cut based on falling underlying cost pressures and slow pay growth," Darlington said.
Marian Bell, Treasury economist at the Royal Bank of Scotland, went further and said the M4 data have clearly enhanced the chances of a rate cut next month.
"This will greatly strengthen the Chancellor's hand in discussions with the Bank. As such it must significantly increase the potential for a rate cut in September."
The next monetary meeting is on September 4.
The finance ministry had 14 bills either before parliament or awaiting certification by state law advisers, Finance Minister Trevor Manuel said on Tuesday.
He told a media briefing at parliament that the department was also working on a white paper on financial management and expenditure budget reform.
The bills before parliament included the Special Pensions Bill to provide so-called "struggle pensions" to those who fought against apartheid and were not able to provide for their own pensions.
The Customs and Excise Amendment Bill provided for some technical customs and excise duty adjustments while the Borrowing Powers of Provincial Governments Bill aimed at allowing provinces to raise loans for capital expenditure.
The Banks Amendment Bill aimed to amend the 1990 Banks Act to regulate investments by banks in joint ventures with or outside South Africa and further regulate the amalgamation of two or more banks.
The state expenditure department had the Supplementary Estimates and Appropriation Bill and the Finance Bill before parliament.
Bills awaiting certification included the Development Bank of Southern Africa Bill aimed to accommodate the bank's new role in the financing of domestic infrastructure.
The Unit Trusts Control Amendment Bill would allow for the establishment of money market unit portfolios by unit trust schemes.
"This will provide the public with an alternative savings mechanism in the short-term money market and will make it more difficult for 'grey market operators' such as money brokers, pyramid schemes, to take savings from unsophisticated small savers," said a memorandum handed out at the briefing.
The Stock Exchanges Control Amendment Bill would correct minor errors in existing legislation.
The Financial Markets Control Amendment Bill would correct minor errors in the Financial Markets Control Act and introduce "interdealer brokers".
The Insurance Amendment Bill would provide for the underwriting of registered medical scheme business, prescribe the valuation of assets, further allow foreign investments by insurers, prohibit the publication of misleading material and further restrict the use of certain names by unregistered insurers.
The Safe Deposit of Securities Amendment Bill would clarify certain interpretations and the Revenue Laws Amendment Bill would legislate recently announced tax incentives for investors.
The South African Reserve Bank Second Amendment Bill would synchronise the election of board members and make several other technical changes.
London's blue-chip FTSE index hit an intra-day record on Tuesday, boosted by benign money supply data as European trading was dominated by the prospects for inflation and interest rates.
Positive German money supply data failed to inspire the German stock market, which traded mixed after the Bundesbank announced slower growth of key M3 money supply figures and virtually guaranteed a cut in its key money market rate.
French stocks opened higher and breezed quickly through the 2,000 index barrier for the first time since August 8, on strengthened hopes of a new round of rate cuts.
Markets were waiting for news of the U.S. Federal Reserve's open market committee meeting later in the day. It had been expected to raise interest rates but is now widely believed to be content to leave them unchanged.
Wall Street, also stilled by the FOMC meeting and general summer torpor had its slowest full day of trade this year on Monday, which may have been factored into Frankfurt's less than euphoric response to the money supply data.
The FTSE's record 3,881.5, the second record in two days, was reached when the British government announced growth in M4, the broad measure of money supply, fell to a seasonally adjusted 8.8 percent on a year-on-year basis in July from 10.1 in percent June. The figure was inside the government's 3.0 to 9.0 percent monitoring range and compared with market forecasts clustered around 9.4 percent.
Analysts said the figures would give further ammunition to Chancellor of the Exchequer Kenneth Clarke if he wants to trim the 5.75 percent base interest rate again in coming months.
"It is a good figure...most people hadn't expected the figure to come back into the monitoring range, which is about the first time for six or seven months," said economist Keith Wade of Schroders.
In Germany, growth in M3, the German central bank's main policy guide, slowed to an annualised 8.6 percent in July from 9.6 percent in June.
"It is now very clear that we have a very good chance to reach the Bundesbank target zone (of four to seven percent growth for 1996). I think there is a very good chance that we will see a cut in the repo rate," said Uwe Angenendt, economist at BHF-Bank in Frankfurt.
Frankfurt started bourse floor trading quietly, with the DAX index barely moved as traders built a fuller picture of the interest rate outlook. The electronic IBIS DAX index was up around 6.7 points.
Currency markets, however, marked time in early European trading. The dollar was ticking over in Europe barely changed from Monday's closing levels, with the market awaiting the outcome of the FOMC meeting.
"It's hard to find anyone looking for a Fed tightening today," said Jeremy Hawkins, senior economic adviser at BankAmerica. "There's a very small risk of a hike and the main focus now is whether the Fed has to move at all this year."
The outcome of the meeting is expected around 1815 GMT, too late for Europe to react.
Assuming no change, the next hurdle for a moribund market will be Thursday's Bundesbank council meeting. Traders are looking for the 3.30 percent repo to be pared, although opinions vary as to the size of a possible cut.
Some are looking for a cut of only 0.05 to 0.10 of a percentage point, while others are more bullish and reckon the central bank will go for a bigger reduction of perhaps 0.15 to 0.20 points.
The Ifo business sentiment index is due on Wednesday and expected to at best show a small improvement in July to around 91.0 after hitting a three-month low of 90.4 percent in June. A soft number will convince traders that the Bundesbank will ease.
Dollar/mark was trading at 1.4902 and dollar/yen at 107.90 versus Monday's late 1.4875 and 107.90. Mark/French franc was trading at 3.4167 against 3.4232.
The Financial Times-Stock Exchange index of 100 leading British shares was up 18.3 points at 3,882.3.  Frankfurt's 30-share DAX index was up 0.46 at 2,563.20. Paris's CAC-40 was up 19.32 at 2005.53.
Gold opened firmer in quiet European trade at $387.55 London's $386.65 with next resistance at $387.50. Silver was firmer at $5.21 vs 512.00, holding overnight gains from New York, mainly due to fund buying. Dealers expect further short-term gains. Platinum was firmer at $399.500 vs $398.40.
Six months to June 30.
NOTE - Full name of carrier is Scandinavian Airlines System, H  which is owned jointly by the governments of Sweden, Norway and Denmark and private investors.
Yamaichi Research Institute of Securities and Economics Inc said it has assigned Kawasaki Kinkai Kisen Kaisha Ltd a "1" rating.
In its three-grade rating system, the research institute assigns a "1" rating to issues whose values it expects will outperform the Tokyo Stock Exchange first-section TOPIX index by more than 10 percentage points over the following six months.
China on Tuesday introduced rules governing direct shipping links with Taiwan, ignoring a decades-old ban by the island it regards as a renegade province.
The regulations, which take effect from Tuesday, allow only wholly Chinese-owned or Taiwan-owned shipping companies or joint ventures involving Chinese or Taiwanese shipowners to sail between the two sides, Xinhua news agency said.
Hong Kong's Beijing-backed Wen Wei Po newspaper said the southeastern Chinese cities of Xiamen and Fuzhou would be the first ports to be opened to direct shipping links with Taiwan.
"The conditions for (establishing) direct shipping links are ripe," the newspaper said.
Taiwan's Nationalist government has banned direct air and shipping links with China since 1949 when Chiang Kai-shek's Nationalist troops lost the Chinese civil war to the communists and fled to the island.
Taiwanese businessmen, who have poured more than $20 billion into China, are eager for direct transport links, but Taiwanese authorities have been reluctant to lift the ban.
The Nationalists, who say they are committed to reunification with China, see direct transport links as their last bargaining chip in talks with the communists.
China has threatened to invade if the island seeks independence.
Under the regulations, shipping companies must apply with the Chinese Ministry of Communications for permission to ply routes between the two sides. The rules made no mention of any need to seek approval from Taiwan authorities.
The ministry has 45 days to decide whether to allow a shipping company to sail between the two sides, according to the regulations.
The rules empower the ministry to warn and seize the unlawful income of shipping companies breaking the rules.
The Taipei-based Economic Daily News said on Tuesday Taiwan President Lee Teng-hui had urged the central bank to study how to control capital outflows to China in a further bid to limit the island's economic exposure on its main rival's turf. The central bank denied the report.
Speculation that Taipei might change its China policy has mounted since Lee cautioned last week that the island's economy needed to avoid over-dependence on the mainland.
"The Chinese are not really making much progress on other fronts... They have decided to focus on the three links and apply pressure on the Taiwanese," a Western diplomat in Beijing said. The three links refer to trade, transport and mail.
On the diplomatic front, the rivalry has intensified, analysts say, with China trying hard to isolate the island and limit its contacts with other states.
Taiwan state-funded television said Vice-President Lien Chan was visiting the former Soviet republic of Ukraine,  which formally recognises Beijing. The Ukraine has denied the report.
China announced a diplomatic coup on Monday, persuading the West African nation of Niger to switch recognition to Beijing.
A British burglar who decided to try for a quick tan after breaking into a hospital nearly roasted to death on a sunbed, a court heard on Tuesday.
Owen Crowther, 18, suffered third degree burns on 90 percent of his body after just 15 seconds on the sunbed in Salisbury District Hospital in southern England.
After being treated at another local hospital Crowther admitted the burglary.
"He's very lucky not to have killed himself with that machine," his lawyer Sarah Barnard told the court.
"He was under it for 15 seconds and 45 seconds causes death. He was in extreme pain when he was caught and in great distress."
Salisbury magistrates, who were told the machine used to treat skin complaints was 60 times more powerful than a regular sunbed, ajourned the case after ordering Owens to undergo psychiatric tests.
Metals firm Metaleurop said on Tuesday it planned to restart lead production at its Nordenham smelter in Germany in early September.
"We are aiming for a restart in early September. That is what is planned and there have been no changes so far," a company spokeswoman told Reuters.
Metaleurop, a subsidiary of Preussag, announced in late July it was closing down the smelter to make technical modifications after some months of experience with its new bath technology.
Metaleurop had said output at the new 90,000 tonne plant was to be limited to 70 percent of capacity during the first 12 months of operation.
The spokeswoman said the production target may be adjusted after the restart.
Because of recurring technical problems Nordenham had been producing less lead than initially expected, she said.
Asked if this meant Nordenham would not meet its initial output target for the first 12 months of operation, she said, "We should be below our target but at this stage we cannot say by how much."
Deliveries to customers have not been affected by the closure as Metaleurop was able to secure lead mainly from its Noyelle-Godault plant in France.
Because of a traditional slowdown in orders during the summer, the company did not need to buy extra lead on an already tight physical market, she said.
Ecuador's Central Bank Reserve said Tuesday that bank system liquidity grew 1.35 percent, or 20 million sucres, to 14.99 billion sucres in the week to August 9.
Total liquidity in the bank sector ended 1995 at 12.51 billion sucres, up 41.2 percent from 1994.
-- Gustavo Oviedo, Quito Newsroom, +5932 258-433.
President Bill Clinton on Tuesday signed a popular bill to raise the minimum wage as polls showed him recapturing the initiative in the White House race from Republican Bob Dole.
While Dole campaigned with Gulf War hero Colin Powell in Kentucky, polls suggested that the momentum he received from last week's Republican convention was melting fast. Election Day is Nov. 5, exactly 12 weeks away.
The latest instalment of an ABC tracking poll showed Clinton's lead over Dole back at 12 percentage points in a three-way race including Texas billionaire Ross Perot, who is running for his new Reform Party.
Only 24 hours earlier, the same poll had Clinton leading Dole by 44 percent to 40 percent. But the latest survey of 1,027 voters, taken on Sunday and Monday, showed that Clinton's support had jumped to 49 percent and Dole's had slumped to 37 percent. Perot lost a point, falling to 10 percent from from 11 percent. The poll had a margin of error of plus or minus 3.5 percentage points.
"Dole's bounce has failed to push him even marginally ahead of Clinton at any point, and with today's weakening its lasting power is put into question," poll analyst Jeff Alderman said.
The figures were consistent with a New York Times/CBS poll released on Monday that also showed Clinton leading by 12 points, 49 to 37 percent. Perot trailed with seven percent.
White House spokesman Mike McCurry said Clinton was in control with a lead in the low double digits. "I think that the rubber band stretched and snapped back over the weekend and we're back to being about where we ... thought it was," he told reporters.
Democrats hope Clinton will get a further boost from the Democratic convention, which begins in Chicago next Monday.
He has moved strongly to seize the spotlight in the past two days and on Tuesday he signed a minimum wage bill, pushed through Congress mainly with Democratic votes, that will raise the hourly pay of more than 10 million Americans by 90 cents.
"This is a truly remarkable piece of legislation. It is pro-work, pro-business and pro-family," Clinton said before signing the bill at a White House ceremomy.
Dole addressed a Veterans of Foreign Wars convention in Louisville, Kentucky. He was introduced by Powell as a champion of a strong defence who "proudly wears a Purple Heart" for his war wounds and who "now offers himself for service as the leader of this great nation."
Powell's well-received speech at the Republican convention in San Diego last week helped the party project an image of tolerance and inclusion.
The Dole campaign, which received a $62 million infusion of federal funds last week, began airing the first television advertisement it had been able to afford since the spring. The commercial attacked Clinton for imposing the highest taxes in U.S. history.
"Bob Dole. Cut taxes. Balance the budget. Raise take-home pay. Tell the truth," the announcer declares as pictures of Dole at last week's Republican convention flash on the screen.
NWE gasoline slid lower on Tuesday as NYMEX futures fell back, traders said.
Eurograde barges were heard traded at $205.50 fob ARA in the morning and then at $209.50. The former number was at the time considered below market, but a broker said that by the day's end numbers had slid down to around $205. Cargo talk was thin.
MTBE was assessed little changed following trade on Monday at $285 fob ARA.
The arbitrage window to the United States was considered open but product is tight in Europe for the rest of August.
The Minneapolis Grain Exchange reported stocks of hard red spring wheat in deliverable position as of Aug 16, in 000 bushels. Stocks in exchange approved elevators deliverable against MGE futures. Deliverable and non-deliverable grades exclude CCC stocks.
Georgia electric power cooperative Oglethorpe Power Corp said on Tuesday it is soliciting bids from power marketers to supply power on its system through the remainder of the year.
The cooperative, which has peak demand of more than 5,000 megawatts, also said two bidders -- LG&E Energy Corp's LG&E Power and Enron Corp's Enron Power Marketing -- are actively bidding on a long-term power marketing pact with the rural Georgia cooperative.
The short-term deal should be in place when the Enron pact expires at the end of August, and the long-term deal should be closed by year-end, an Oglethorpe spokesman said.
"We are currently in detailed negotiations, and will continue to work to accomplish that goal," said Robert Hosfeld, manager of system control for the cooperative.
The short-term power deal would replace a four-month pact with Enron, which supplied power to the cooperative in exchange for output from its generating plants.
Four marketers, including the LG&E and Enron units and consortiums formed by Duke Power/Louis Dreyfus and Morgan Stanley/PECO had been bidding on the long-term pact with Oglethorpe, which has 39 members and serves 2.6 million people.
RAO Vysokoskorostnye Magistrali (VSM or High-Speed Railways) will make a second 240 billion rouble one-year government-guaranteed bond issue in September, a company official said on Tuesday.
VSM plans to send the prospectus for approval to the finance ministry and central bank in the first week of September, deputy finance director Andrei Nikandrov told Reuters.
Approval is likely to take one week, he said.
The company is raising funds to build a high-speed Moscow-St Petersburg rail link.
VSM issued 120 billion roubles of government-backed bonds on the Moscow Interbank Currency Exchange at the beginning of the year. The securities are effectively the same as Russian OFZ interest-bearing government bonds.
OFZ bonds pay quarterly interest linked to the yield of current issues of GKO discount treasury bills.
The proceeds of the first issue went to start work on a railway terminus in St Petersburg, clearing the construction site, Nikandrov said.
Russia recently approved a $200 million British loan for constructing the terminus by U.K. construction company Taylor Woodraw Plc.
Bangladesh needs at least $7.0 billion of investment in the power sector over the next decade to meet rising demand for electricity, Energy Minister Nooruddin Khan said.
"The government is left no option other than inviting private capital from home and abroad to finance development in the country power sector," he told a seminar.
The minister said a policy allowing private investment in power generation was being formulated and this would address all critical questions including a rational tariff structure. He did not elaborate.
Energy Secretary S.A. Samad said the policy, due to be introduced in a month, would ensure a level playing field for both private and public companies in the power sector.
Bangladesh needs an additional 3,000 megawatts of electricity by the year 2005 even with only a modest growth in demand of eight to nine percent over the period, said one official.
Energy ministry officials said nearly a dozen foreign companies had signed memoranda of understanding for investment in power generation.
Bangladesh has a power generation shortfall of about 500 megawatts after producing only 2,000 megawatts, they said. The Energy Secretary said power generation had stagnated in recent years due to "donors' fatigue" in funding the sector.
Energy ministry officials said "system loss" resulting from the theft of power and wastage during generation was running at around 40 percent.
Croatian stocks traded mixed on Tuesday with blue chips again hitting higher levels and market appeared to be consolidating, in line with reawakened activity on international markets.
"New rise for drugs firm Pliva is the best indicator that many investors are back from holiday," said Velimir Zelimorski of Fima brokerage.
He added he expected livelier trade in the coming week, with fully listed Pliva and Zagrebacka Banka following their London prices.
"But main events are not expected before mid-September," Zelimorski said.
* Of seven issues that traded, two rose, one fell and four were flat.
* Drugs firm Pliva jumped 1,500 kuna from last Thursday, closing at 11,000 on volume of 932 shares. Its GDRs on London Stock Exchange rose to $47 from last Friday's $42.125.
* Most actively traded Zagrebacka gained 38 kuna to close the day at 650, selling 4,000 shares. Its GDRs  ZBB.L traded at SEAQ International at $14.25, unchanged from last week.
* Food processor Podravka lost 15 kuna to 195, with 1,062 units changing hands.
- Jadranturist was flat at 160 kuna, with 214 shares sold.
- Laguna traded at 800 kuna on volume of 82 shares.
- Riviera and Arenaturist both traded at 100 kuna, with 467 and 385 shares sold, respectively.
* Daily volume up at 7,141 shares, turnover slightly lower at 13 million kuna.
German construction machinery maker Orenstein & Koppel AG said on Tuesday it would cut hundreds of jobs fromm its workforce of 3,576 by the end of next year.
Earlier the company said it made an operating loss in the first six months of the year. But because of the sale of its lift division, O&K reported a pre-tax profit for the period of 85 million marks, up from two million marks the year before.
O&K is a subsidiary of Fried. Krupp AG Hoesch-Krupp .
A spokesman for O&K said the company would carry out a drastic restructuring programme as a result of the slump in the construction machinery sector. He said it was too soon to know how many jobs would be cut.
Forecasts for the sector indicated there would be no improvement in the foreseeable future.
Argentine bonds finished slightly lower Tuesday and virtually unchanged from their morning levels.
Traders said there was no news to move the market on the domestic front. And, as largely expected by market players, the U.S. Federal Reserve opted to leave interest rates unchanged giving no new direction to Argentine bonds.
"There was little movement today," said a trader at a large Argentine brokerage house.
Otherwise, a delegation from the International Monetary Fund arrived in Argentina Tuesday to look into the state of the economy after the IMF-agreed budget deficit target in the first half was overshot by more than $1.0 billion.
The Economy Ministry said Fernandez will meet the IMF mission on Friday.
The government said it would send the measures to Congress later Tuesday, although Oscar Lamberto, chairman of the lower house's Budget and Finance Committee said they would not become law until end-September or early October.
Traders said because no major new developments were expected this week, the market might remain flat. "I do not expect much movement this week," said the trader.
The president of the Air Line Pilots Association said Tuesday he thought the Federal Aviation Administration would drop some of its planned new rules aimed at alleviating pilot fatigue.
ALPA had said previously the proposed rules were "an unsatisfactory degradation of current regulations."
The FAA proposed the rules following recommendations by the National Transportation Safety Board after it determined fatigue had been a factor in two aircraft accidents.
But the FAA proposals drew strong opposition from the airline industry as well as the pilots.
They would set "duty time" limits for the first time for pilots -- time on standby added to time flying -- but increase the length of time pilots would be allowed to fly before being required to take time off.
ALPA president Randolph Babbitt said that while the union backed the setting of overall time limits, it could not accept the proposed increase in flight time to 10 hours from eight.
Babbitt also said in a briefing during a union safety forum that the new rules failed to take into account for the fatigue stemming from circadian disruptions.
Pilots are hit by these, he said, when their schedules extend around the "back side of the clock -- the hours between midnight and 6 a.m. -- and through several time zones.
The U.S. Air Transport Association, the trade group of the major airlines, objected to the regulations, saying the FAA had no research showing they would improve safety and that the rules would cost the airlines hundreds of millions of dollars.
FAA spokesman Curtis Austin would not comment.
-- Rodman & Renshaw Inc said Tuesday it initiated coverage of Cypress Semiconductor Corp with a buy rating.
-- At 10.9 times its 1997 earnings estimate of $1.03 a share, Rodman said it believes the stock is "cheap." It projects a 12-month target price of 18-1/2, or 18 times the 1997 estimate.
-- "On a risk/reward basis, we believe that downside risk exists to $9.50 or 16 percent, and the upside is roughly 64 percent," Rodman said in a report. "This is a high-volatility, high-risk equity."
-- Cypress shares closed August 20 at 11-3/8 (corrects stock quote).
-- Rodman said Cypress reported a book-to-bill ratio of 0.74 for the second quarter, compared with the industry three-month average of 0.91. "We expect (Cypress' book-to-bill ratio) to improve in the second half as the back-to-school and holiday seasons approach," Rodman said.
Japan will extend credits worth $940 million to Mexico during this week's visit by Japanese Prime Minister Ryutaro Hasimoto, a Foreign Ministry official said on Monday.
Juan Rebolledo Gout, an undersecretary in the Foreign Ministry, said the credits -- aimed at ecological projects, small- and medium-sized firms and Mexican exporters -- would be signed by Mexican and Japanese officials on Wednesday.
He gave no details of the breakdown for each loan, or the terms.
The support comes as Hashimoto seeks to open up a new trade front for Japanese industry in Latin America. Tokyo has already pumped nearly $60 billion in direct investment into the region over the past 14 years and its economic aid doubled between 1990 and 1995 to $1.14 billion.
Mexico marks the first stop on a five-nation, 10-day tour that will also take him to Chile, Brazil, Peru and Costa Rica.
A potential cloud was lifted on Monday from Hashimoto's visit to Mexico when kidnappers released a top Japanese electronics executive in the Mexican-U.S. border city of Tijuana after a $2 million ransom was paid.
After nine days in captivity, Mamoru Konno, president of a U.S. subsidiary of Japan's Sanyo Electric Co was found in the basement of an unoccupied building after a Mexican police official contacted kidnappers with the money.
It was the first kidnapping of a high-ranking foreign businessman in Mexico in recent years, and has sparked fears that foreigners will re-think investment plans for the bustling trade zones along the U.S. border.
The foreign ministry official was quoted by the state news agency Notimex as saying President Ernesto Zedillo would discuss the kidnapping with Hashimoto, and assure him Konno's life was his government's top priority.
The Japanese premier is also expected to seek assurances from Zedillo about safety for Japanese firms that move to Mexico to take advantage of access to the U.S. and Canadian markets via the North American Free Trade Agreement.
London shares opened mixed but steady on Tuesday as UK economic data and U.S. and German decisions on monetary policy expected this week once again dampened trading interest, dealers said.
At the open the FTSE 100 index of leading shares was 3.6 points higher at 3,867.3.
After one of the quietest sessions of recent weeks on Monday, activity is likely to remain cautious ahead of Wednesday's outcome of the Federal Reserves Open Market Committee (FOMC) meeting which starts today in the U.S.
However, markets anticipate no change to interest rates after recent data easing worries about inflationary pressures.
Jordanian security forces eased a curfew in the southern town of Karak on Tuesday and have seized at least 14 leaders of a pro-Iraqi party blamed by King Hussein for inciting bread riots there, government officials said.
Armoured vehicles patrolled Karak where two days of riots began last Friday in protest against the government's doubling of bread prices under reforms backed by the International Monetary Fund (IMF).
"Things are quiet in Karak," one government official told Reuters.
Another official said the curfew in Karak would be gradually eased.
"As of today, Tuesday, people will be allowed to move for 10 hours a day at different intervals, from two hours at present. This will be increased depending on the situation before it is totally lifted when authorities deem that possible," he said.
The first official said security forces since Friday had detained up to 150 people, including 100 in Karak. Many were released while others will be sent to court for trial, he said.
Those arrested included at least 14 leaders of the Jordanian Arab Socialist Baath Party, a pro-Iraqi organisation that King Hussein had blamed for the riots, the official said.
Three of the leaders were named as Omar Abu El-Ragheb, Ali Hyasat and Yasin Umoush.
Party officials were not available for comment. The party earlier denied any involvement in the unrest which government critics blamed on rising economic hardship and poverty.
Residents in Karak said 300 people there had been detained since Friday but many were already released.
An Iraqi radio station, in a report monitored by the British Broadcasting Corporation, denied that Iraq was behind the unrest and accused the Jordanian government of bringing trouble on itself through its pursuit of policies opposed by the people.
Iraq's "Mother of Battles Radio", an external service for the Arab world, said on Monday night that the rioting had been an explosion of popular anger, with no outside intervention.
"Every citizen in sisterly Jordan understands this, and knows that the government's attempts to accuse certain parties are a distortion of facts and an avoidance of reality," the radio said.
Once close relations between Jordan and Iraq deteriorated sharply a year ago when King Hussein gave refuge to two defectors from Baghdad, both sons-in-law of President Saddam Hussein, and called for change in Iraq.
Unrest broke out in Karak after noon prayers on Friday, three days after the government enforced the new bread prices. Riots quickly spread to nearby villages, prompting the king to send in the army to calm unrest. Violence also broke out in a working-class district of central Amman.
King Hussein suspended the summer session of parliament, vowed to stop the unrest with an "iron fist" and has thrown his full weight behind the government of Prime Minister Abdul-Karim al-Kabariti who has borne the brunt of widespread criticism.
State-run media carried scores of "loyalty and support" cables sent to the king from municipality chiefs, dignitaries and leading tribesmen -- his traditional bedrock support. The monarch had lunch with a leading tribe in northern Jordan on Tuesday.
While the government has proclaimed the crisis over, Karak residents say the government's use of force did not address their grievances and could precipitate more trouble once the army leaves.
The violence was the most serious in Jordan since 1989 when government price rises also sparked off riots. The king responded then by changing his prime minister and starting democratic reforms.
One Israeli soldier was killed and another seriously wounded on Tuesday inside Israel's south Lebanon occupation zone when a group of Israeli soldiers fired on another group by mistake, security sources said.
They said one group of soldiers, mistaking another group for Moslem guerrillas in Wadi Zibqeen, on the edge of the western sector of the buffer zone, opened fire at 5.00 a.m. (0200 GMT).
One soldier was killed and another was wounded. The body and the wounded soldier were immediately flown to Israel by helicopter. The sources did not give further details.
Pro-Israeli militia sources inside the zone said they had no information on the incident. Israel has a policy of not announcing such incidents before notifying the families of the dead.
Later, Israeli gunmen and their local militia allies shelled the village of Zibqeen outside the zone heavily damaging three houses. No casualties were reported in the bombardment, Lebanese security sources said.
Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu had visited the zone on Monday and warned the pro-Iranian Hizbollah that its raids on Israeli forces would only worsen the conflict.
Hours after he spoke a militiaman of the Israeli-backed South Lebanon Army (SLA) was killed by a guerrilla bomb while on patrol, SLA sources said.
Israeli troops, assisted by 3,000 SLA militiamen, hold a 15-km (nine-mile) wide zone in south Lebanon since 1985. Hizbollah (Party of God) guerrillas often attack the occupation troops in a bid to oust them from Lebanon.
Zimbabwean civil servants went on strike on Tuesday to press demands for higher pay, rejecting as inadequate recent salary increases of up to eight percent.
Public Service Association (PSA) executive secretary John Makoni told reporters "a lot" of the southern African state's 180,000 civil servants had heeded the PSA union's call "to go to work and walk out".
The chairman of the Public Service Commission (PSC), Mariyawanda Nzuwah, told Zimbabwe state radio the strike was irresponsible and unacceptable to the government and negotiation channels had not been exhausted.
But Makoni said the government had left the union with no option because it was not prepared to look at workers' demands for pay increases of around 25-30 percent.
"We will not go back to work until the PSC and the Ministry of Public Service, Labour and Social Welfare review the situation," he said.
Hundreds of workers were milling around government offices in the capital Harare on Tuesday morning, leaving only senior officials at their desks.
Nurses from Harare's two major hospitals also walked off their jobs late on Monday, demanding higher salaries.
J. Ray McDermott SA said Tuesday that James Dutt had been named interim chairman of the board and chief executive officer, effective September 1.
Dutt succeeds retiring chairman and CEO Robert Howson until a successor to Howson is selected.
The company also said Thomas Barrow, a McDermott International director, had been named to the J. Ray McDermott board, effective September 1.
"The maintained rating reflects Slough's place as the UK's largest industrial property investment company and fifth largest overall," IBCA said in a statement.
"Disposal of interests in Australia will fund part of the current 175 million stg development programme while a large proportion of major developments are either pre-sold or pre-let," IBCA said.
IBCA said broadly maintained gearing demonstrates managed growth through new developments and redevelopment of existing sites.
"The uncertain outlook for the property market and low inflation means that further expansion will most probably come through this source rather than acquisitions," IBCA said.
"Financial coverages remain satisfactory and continue to be supported by the secure UK rental income stream," it said.
Wells Fargo and Co filed on Tuesday with the Securities and Exchange Commission a shelf registration for up to $3.5 billion in debt securities.
The filing includes senior debt securities, subordinated debt securities and preferred stock.
Proceeds from sales of the securities will be used for general corporate purposes.
Karachi stocks fell 1.0 percent towards the close on Tuesday as prices of blue chips tumbled on selling pressure on continued political uncertainty and grim economic outlook, dealers said.
The Karachi Stock Exchange 100-share index ended 14.31 points lower at 1,423.64. Losers led gainers 161 to 80. "Until the economy revives there is no possibility of a market revival," dealer Sajjad Mankani said.
Freight forwarder Air Express International said it has been awarded a multimillion-dollar contract to handle the air and ocean freight movements from Europe of Bristol-Myers Squibb Co.
Air Express said the contract covers the shipping of bulk finished pharmaceuticals and chemical products, ranging from infant feeds to hair dye.
The U.S.-based freight forwarder said it will be responsible for the movement of goods from the Netherlands, the United Kingdom, Ireland, France, Germany, Denmark and Italy to destinations in the U.S., Canada, Australia, Egypt, South Africa and eastern Asia.
About two thirds of the goods will move by sea, said AEI.
Higher tax revenues helped Spain reduce its central government deficit by 18.7 percent in the first seven months of this year.
Economy ministry figures released earlier showed there was a budget surplus of 282 billion peseta in July and the accumulated deficit fell to 1.18 trillion pesetas.
Corporate tax income rose 37.2 percent to 326.6 billion pesetas in July and the accumulated seven month figure was 31.4 percent higher at 596.7 billion.
Personal income tax revenues also rose 6.8 percent in the year to date to 3.71 trillion pesetas.
Total non-financial income was 8.5 percent higher at 9.02 trillion.
Financial costs, that is the debt servicing burden, fell 11.1 percent in the month although the accumulated figure rose 19.9 percent to 1.98 trillion pesetas.
The central government deficit target for the year is 3.4 percent of GDP or some 2.6 trillion pesetas. The social security body and the autonomous regions are expected to add another percentage point to this to take the overall public sector deficit to 4.4 percent.
Lloyd's of London asked a U.S. judge on Tuesday to dismiss an attempt by investors to block the 300-year-old insurance market's recovery plan and said it was willing to allow those investors to sue in the United Kingdom if fraud was found in its restructuring.
Tens of thousands of investors in Lloyd's worldwide were anxiously awaiting the outcome of the Virginia case, in which U.S. investors have applied for an injunction to stop the recovery plan.
Under the rescue proposal, Lloyd's was to reinsure billions of dollars in liabilities, including pollution and asbestosis-related claims in the United States, into a new company called Equitas. The investors must vote on the proposal by Aug. 28.
Arguing to have the suit dismissed, Lloyd's attorney Harvey Pitt told U.S. District Court Judge Robert Payne that the case did not belong in his court.
"This case has no business in this court," Pitt told the court. "I have never seen a case where none of the witnesses, plaintiffs or defendants live in the eastern district of Virginia."
Pitt said Lloyd's chief executive officer Ronald Sandler, who was on the witness stand for four hours Tuesday, was prepared to stipulate that if the judge dismissed the case and fraud later was found to be a part of the restructuring, the plaintiffs could sue in the United Kingdom.
Steve Clay, attorney for the plaintiffs, argued that a stipulation from Lloyd's would not address the investors' immediate need for information.
"We are here to try to make sure we get that information. Information is such power," Clay said, adding that the investors were not seeking damages but needed information in order to make a decision on the restructuring plan.
The hearing was expected to last at least two more hours. Judge Payne said he would not rule on the injunction request Tuesday night. A decision was expected Wednesday.
Australian Prime Minister John Howard told government parliamentarians today's budget would reveal a small and growing budget surplus in 1998/99 and 1999/2000, a government spokesman told reporters on Tuesday.
Direct investment and other long-term capital registered a net inflow of US$970 million in the second quarter of 1996 compared with a net outflow of $1.168 billion in the same period a year earlier, a central bank statement said.
It attributed the net inflow of direct investment and other long-term capital to persistent entry of foreign equity funds on news that Taiwan would be included in Morgan Stanley's emerging-market free indices in the second half of 1996.
Foreign assets of the central bank increased $3.656 billion in the second quarter, against an increase of $1.035 billion in the same period a year earlier.
German retail workers' unions on Tuesday resumed regional talks with shopowners aimed at agreeing a wage and work hours deal to cope with the liberalisation of German shopping hours in November.
As the HDE retail industry association pleaded for a swift end to the deadlock on the talks, the HBV services union, in the second day of talks for North Rhine-Westphalia's 450,000 retail workers, said it was hopeful a deal could be struck.
Unions are pressing for broader adoption of a regional deal struck in Rhineland-Palatinate which called for workers to get a 1.85 percent wage rise plus 20 percent extra time in lieu per hour worked after 6:30 p.m. weekdays and 2:00 p.m. Saturdays.
Employers, hit by weak consumer spending, have baulked at accepting the Rhineland-Palatinate deal, and are particularly wary of the 20 percent allowance.
However HBV's chief negotiator for North Rhine-Westphalia, Gerhard Keuchel, said there were "strong chances" for agreement during Tuesday's talks taking place in the town of Marl.
Meanwhile HDE wages expert Guenther Wassmann urged unions to reach agreement with shopowners soon, thus ending four months of sporadic strike action which have affected shops and wholesalers throughout Germany.
"This cannot drag on until the start of November," Wassmann said.
In Bavaria, the DAG white collar union suspended warning strikes ahead of the start of their tenth round of wage negotiations on Wednesday.
DAG representatives said they were confident of success and planned to suggest a compromise on the controversial 20 percent allowance but warned that strikes would resume indefinitiely if employers declined the offer.
These are significant stories in the Ivorian press on Tuesday. Reuters has not verified these stories and does not vouch for their accuracy.
- Ivorian army on maneouvres with U.S. Special Forces.
- Ivorian musician Gnaore Djimi dies in hospital.
- Djeny Kobina, leader of the opposition Rally of the Republicans, calls for calming of relations between the government and opposition in a speech in Gagnoa, scene of political and ethnic violence before and during last October's presidential election.
- Police break up news conference by banned FESCI students' union to complain about reductions in grants.
- Government reopens one block in the privatisation of palm oil producer Palmindustrie to new bids, judging original offers inadequate.
said today it had launched three bonds off its EMTN Programme.
guilders and the third for 27.5 million Irish pounds.
PREVAILING FIVE-YEAR DUTCH GOVERNMENT LOAN STOCK.
CALL OPTION COMMENCES IN AUGUST 2004.
 NOTES	*UNTIL FEB 2002, 0.75 PCT THEREAFTER.
CALL OPTION COMMENCES ON FEB 2002.
NOTE - A knitwear manufacturer.
Net is after an exceptional loss on provision for non-recovery of amounts due from unconsolidated subsidiaries, writeoff of goodwill on deconsolidation of subsidiaries, provision for non-recovery of amount due from MKI Corp, write back of provisions for diminution in value of investment properties, Malaysian property and Hong Kong property.
Comparative turnover was adjusted to $72.71 million from HK$73.16 million to reflect decision to report net profit on sales of marketable securities instead of gross proceeds.
Comparative loss per share adjusted for rights issue.
Total dividend for year is nil vs nil.
The following bond was announced by lead manager Deutsche Bank.
Doctors in three Zambian cities have gone on strike or started go-slows to push for increased pay, paralysing operations in key hospitals, officials said on Tuesday.
Witnesses said dozens of patients at Lusaka's University Teaching Hospital and the central hospitals in the mining towns of Kitwe and Ndola were left unattended to as the doctors' strike started on Monday.
They said only a handful of senior doctors were working, and attending to serious cases only.
The doctors' association said the actions were in response to the government's failure to increase their wages as promised three years ago.
"With effect from 19 August, 1996, Zambian resident doctors have been forced to go on an indefinite go-slow in a bid to press for reasonable conditions of service for their profession," the association said in a statement on Tuesday.
Ministry of health officials said they were not sure what the doctors' grievances were.
"They have not stated their position to us. They have had closed-door meetings and we know nothing about their discussions," a ministry official said.
Doctors have been negotiating with the government since 1993 after a government commission recommended that conditions of their service be improved.
The United States said on Monday it was kicking out a Cuban diplomat in retaliation for the expulsion of a U.S. diplomat from Cuba who had specialised in promoting human rights.
The State Department disclosed that Cuba revoked the visa last week of Robin Meyer, accusing her of activities "incompatible with her diplomatic status" -- diplomatic parlance for spying.
"We categorically reject that assertion and protest in the strongest terms the Cuban government's action in requiring her to leave," the department said in a statement..
It said Meyer, an officer in the U.S. Interests Section "with primary responsibility for human rights issues," was given until Wednesday to depart Cuba.
In what it called a reciprocal response, the department said it revoked the visa on Monday of Jose Luis Ponce Caraballo, a spokesman for the Cuban Interests Section of the Swiss embassy in Washington.
Ponce Caraballo will be required to leave the United States within a week, the department said without accusing him of any wrongdoing. The Cuban Interests Section had no immediate comment.
The State Department said Meyer carried out her diplomatic functions under the direction of the chief of the U.S. Interests Section in Havana in full accordance with the Vienna Convention on Diplomatic Relations.
During two years in Cuba, Meyer openly met with representatives of human rights and independent professional groups throughout the island, "providing moral support and distributing published information," the department said.
Among the material she handed out were copies of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights and standard college-level textbooks on government, democracy, international relations and journalism, it said.
"U.S. diplomats throughout the world engage in similar activities," the State Department said.
It said the U.S. government remained firmly committed to advancing the cause of human rights in Cuba and would continue to work "vigorously" to promote a peaceful transition to democracy there.
The United States and communist-ruled Cuba, at odds since President Fidel Castro seized power in 1959, maintain a low-level dialogue through interest sections in the Swiss embassies in each other's capitals.
Relations between the two neighbours took yet another turn for the worse in March when President Bill Clinton signed a bill that strengthened the 35-year U.S. embargo against Cuba by penalising foreigners who invest there.
That legislation, prompted by Cuba's downing of two unarmed civilian planes piloted by Cuban-Americans in late February, lets claimants in the United States sue foreign investors who "traffic" in confiscated property in Cuba.
U.S. House of Representatives Speaker Newt Gingrich said on Tuesday the FBI would owe Richard Jewell an apology if investigators failed to link him to the deadly July 27 bomb attack on the Olympic Games.
The Georgia Republican also criticized the news media for effectively indicting the security guard in the public eye and suggested stronger privacy rights to protect citizens from the press in future.
"If it turns out he did not do it, I think they (the FBI) owe him an apology. And, frankly, I think they need to rethink how they handle some of these cases," Gingrich told reporters after holding a news conference on federal welfare reform.
FBI officials were not available to comment on the speaker's remarks.
Jewell, 33, spent three weeks as the only named suspect in the bombing, which left two people dead and more than 100 injured in downtown Atlanta at the end of the first week of the games.
He was not charged and steadfastly maintained his innocence. But his suburban Atlanta home, where he spent nearly all of his time, was under continuous watch by members of the news media and by federal investigators.
Hordes of television cameras, photographers and reporters waited outside Jewell's apartment for days after news broke of his role as a suspect until they were asked to leave by apartment managers.
"The level of attention the news media put this guy under, if it turns out he's innocent, should lead everybody to rethink what the rules of the game ought to be. And maybe we ought to have a little better sense of restraint in these kinds of situations," the speaker said.
He suggested the incident could point to a need for stronger protective rights for citizens. "You could, for example, much more strongly protect privacy rights and you could more strongly protect trespass rights," Gingrich said.
"Maybe the ground rules ought to be that when you're dealing with someone who has not been charged, maybe there ought to be a different standard than when you're dealing with someone who has been charged," he said.
"You go and ask him. Does he have a hard time right now going out to dinner?" he said.
China is unlikely to need to buy rice on the international market to make up for flood damage to domestic crops, Far East traders said on Tuesday.
No China inquiries for rice were reported by traders in China, Hong Kong, Singapore and Thailand.
"As far as large demand from the (central grain) reserve, COFCO (China National Cereals, Oils and Foodstuffs Import Export Corp) or the grain bureaux goes, I rule it out," said a Chinese trader in Shanghai.
China's Futures Herald newspaper, quoting State Grain Reserve Administration statistics, said on Saturday that although flood damage had reduced the early rice harvest and was likely to slow planting of late rice, total output for 1996 was expected to be unaffected.
This is because China has increased the area under rice cultivation this year, the newspaper said, adding that the reduction in the early harvest should not have a significant effect on the total grain harvest due to higher production of other crops, it said.
Rice imports could not go ahead without central government approval, and the process of issuing quotas and licences could take weeks or even months, trading sources said.
The International Federation of Red Cross and Red Crescent Societies said at the weekend that flooding in Hunan, one of China's major rice-growing provinces, had prevented farmers from planting rice for the autumn harvest and could force them to depend on food aid until next summer.
"Many farmers lost the season's first crop of rice in the floods and were unable to plant for the second harvest, leaving them dependent on food aid until their next crop, in one year's time," said Thorir Gudmundsson.
"For the second crop, they need to plant in July, and it is now mid-August," he said.
The notion that China might need to import rice to meet demand provided some underlying support to rice futures prices on the Chicago Board of Trade (CBOT) on Monday.
The CBOT September price closed up 5-1/2 U.S. cents per cwt at $10.16.
Chicago rice futures have been underpinned by a recent U.S. report that China bought 20,000 tonnes of Vietnamese white rice for prompt July shipments and that additional purchases were expected.
But very little movement in domestic Chinese rice prices has been seen over the past three months, traders said.
"To be convinced that China will buy some rice, I have to get confirmation from the market -- but so far the market has not done anything, prices are steady," one Asian trader said.
Traders in China quoted domestic prices at 2,200-2,300 yuan ($265-$277) a tonne for low quality long grain rice; 2,600-2,700 yuan ($313-$325) for high quality long grain rice; up to 2,800 yuan ($337) for low quality short grain rice; and 3,000 yuan ($361) for high quality short grain rice.
More than 500 people were killed by the July floods in Hunan alone, with the national death toll from floods and typhoons surpassing 2,700, according to the government.
Applications for rice imports would have to traverse China's multi-layered bureaucracy, trading sources said, though the procedure could be speeded up in times of emergency.
The State Planning Commission (SPC) would issue a national quota, which would then be allocated to provincial SPC offices, which would then distribute the quota to trading companies, trading sources said.
Rice, along with wheat, corn and soybeans, is considered a strategic grain and is thus tightly regulated.
Hunan grows more than 22 percent of China's total early rice crop. Losses to the rice crop in the central province have been estimated at 2.4 million tonnes, accounting for most of the 2.6 million tonnes of Hunan's total grain losses.
About 90 percent of China's early rice crop of 50 million tonnes is grown in Hunan, Guangxi, Guangdong, Jiangxi and Zhejiang provinces. China has three rice crops a year.
A Chinese analyst predicted earlier this month that the flooding could cut early rice output by between 10 and 20 percent. This would reduce the total 1996 rice crop by up to four percent for a total output figure of about 180 million tonnes.
China's rice production in 1995 was 179 million tonnes according to figures from the China National Cereals, Oils and Foodstuffs Import and Export Corp.
Singapore government securities ended narrowly mixed in moderate trade on interbank and retail interest, dealers said on Tuesday.
"The interbank rate rose slightly today but there was little impact on the market. Treasury bill yields were steady to slightly higher but bond prices were narrowly mixed. Volume was moderate," a local dealer said.
Among bonds, July 1998 ended at S$99.60/99.65 against Monday's close of S$99.63/99.68, March 2001 at S$99.78/99.83 from S$99.73/99.78 and June 2003 at S$99.63/99.68 versus S$99.70/99.75.
The overnight interbank offered rate rose to 3-7/8 3-3/4 percent against Monday's 3-11/16 3-9/16 percent.
Singapore non-oil domestic exports, confounding most expectations, bounced back in July, surging 6.4 percent after dropping 6.1 percent in June, the Trade Development Board (TDB) said on Tuesday.
Non-oil exports expanded to Singapore $7.28 billion (US$ 5.16 billion) in nominal terms.
The figures were completely out of line with forecasts by leading economists. A Reuters poll of eight economists had early predicted a nominal year-on-year fall of 1.7 percent.
"Non-oil exports performed much better than expected. On the surface it looks good, but it is a volatile figure on a month-to-month basis," said Albert Tan, an economist with J.M. Sassoon.
The TDB said non-oil domestic exports to the United States, Singapore's largest market, and Japan continued to increase but at a more moderate rate at 7.2 percent and 13.7 percent respectively.
The increase in sales to the United States was mainly in disk drives, integrated circuits, and printers amongst other electronic items.
However, exports of computer parts and peripherals and radios declined.
Exports to Europe also shrank, by 2.6 percent, while exports to Malaysia and Hong Kong also remained weak, said TDB.
However, non-oil domestic exports to South Korea and China maintained strong growth, expanding by 24.8 percent and 17.9 percent respectively.
China has issued a set of regulations governing direct shipping links with Taiwan, the Xinhua news agency said on Tuesday.
"The regulations...are meant to promote cargo and passenger transport between the two sides of the Straits and accelerate the development of direct mail service, trade, and air and shipping links across the Straits," Xinhua said. It gave no further details.
Hong Kong's Beijing-backed Wen Wei Po newspaper said on Tuesday that the southeastern Chinese cities of Xiamen and Fuzhou would be the first ports to be opened to direct shipping links with Taiwan.
The conditions were ripe for establishing direct shipping links between the two sides, the newspaper said.
An official of the Ministry of Communications declined to comment on the reports, saying only that China would make a statement through the official media in future.
Taiwan has banned direct air and shipping links with China since Chiang Kai-shek's Nationalists lost the Chinese civil war and fled to the island in 1949.
Japanese photographic film maker Konica Corp said on Tuesday it had agreed to sell two of its main film developing laboratories in the United States to Qualex Inc, a subsidiary of Eastman Kodak Co.
Qualex, based in North Carolina, is the largest film developing company in the United States.
A Konica spokesman said the labs were in Connecticut and Virginia. He declined to give a value for the planned sale. The sale was part of Konica's restructuring, the spokesman said, adding that Qualex wanted to expand its network of film developing labs.
Where in the world is Taiwanese Vice-President Lien Chan?
The question has perplexed journalists, nervous stock market investors and ordinary citizens since Lien, a dapper, U.S.-educated millionaire who doubles as premier or cabinet chief, dropped from sight in New York on Sunday.
Lien's whereabouts are laden with portent for Taiwan's strained ties with longtime rival China, which surely is as curious as anyone about his movements.
Taiwan's government knows where he is, acknowledging that Lien is making a private visit to a country where Taiwan has no diplomatic ties, apparently in Europe.
But officials have bent over backward to keep Lien's travels secret, knowing Beijing will savage any diplomatic friend that accords anything resembling an official welcome to a leader of what Beijing regards as Taiwan's illegitimate government.
A state-funded television station reported on Tuesday that Lien's journey had taken him to Ukraine, and the authoritative United Daily News said he was expected to meet the Ukrainian head of state.
Neither identified or described the source of its report and Taiwan officials refused to comment on it.
A former Soviet republic, Ukraine recognises the communist government in Beijing -- not Taiwan's exiled Republic of China government -- but has made clear its desire for better relations with Taiwan and its powerful export-driven economy.
In the official information void, Taiwan's media have been left to speculate about Lien's destination, variously suggesting he would visit Hungary, Poland, Switzerland, France, Austria or Belarus, not to mention Ukraine.
China's ire at diplomatic affronts can be dramatic and has prompted Taiwan President Lee Teng-hui in the past week to step up the rhetoric of a festering political showdown dating to the civil war that split Taiwan from China in 1949.
Worries over renewed acrimony on Monday sparked a three-percent slide in Taiwan's hypersensitive stock market, but share prices recouped some of the losses on Tuesday.
A furious Beijing downgraded its U.S. ties after Washington let Taiwan Lee make a private visit in June 1995, although the two sides recently began patching things up.
China showed its anger at Taipei with a nine-month spate of war games and unarmed missile tests in waters near Taiwan that peaked in the final days before the island's March 23 election, the first popular presidential poll in Chinese history.
France, Germany, Austria, the Netherlands and Czech Republic are among diplomatic partners of China that have paid dearly for arming Taiwan or showing other signs of political support.
Beijing flatly refuses to recognise any state that recognises Taiwan's exiled Republic of China government.
The number of those countries fell by one on Monday to just 30 as impoverished Niger, which split with Beijing to recognise Taipei in 1992, switched back to Beijing.
China had denounced Niger's defection to Taiwan as a result of the prosperous island's "chequebook diplomacy" and has made a high priority of wooing Niger and other African states back.
Chinese President Jiang Zemin visited six African countries in June, including Niger's neighbour Mali, prompting Taipei to claim that Beijing was the true "chequebook diplomat."
Results per division for the six months to June 30.
Hilton Hotels Corp and Bally Entertainment Corp said Hilton's S-4 Registration Statement regarding Hilton's purchase of Bally had been declared effective by the Securities and Exchange Commission.
In a statement late on Monday, the companies said the document also constituted Bally's proxy statement.
Mailing of the companies' Joint Proxy Statement/Prospectus will commence on Tuesday to both Hilton and Bally's shareholders of record as of Aug 16.
Special meetings to consider and vote upon the transaction are scheduled for Sept 18 and 19 for Bally and Hilton shareholders, respectively.
Malayan Banking Bhd (Maybank) on Tuesday posted full-year results that were in line with or slightly above market expectations, belying fears they would fall below estimates, analysts said on Tuesday.
Net profit at the nation's largest bank for the year ended June 30, 1996, rose to 1.07 billion ringgit ($428 million), or 94 cents a share, from 863.53 million ringgit, or 76 cents a share, a year earlier.
That was a shade above forecasts of around 1.04 billion ringgit, or 91 cents a share.
"I think (the result) was slightly above market expectations, but it was very much in line with my estimate of 1.094 billion," said Gan Kim Khoon, an analyst at James Capel. "I would say it should do some good for the share price."
Maybank's stock had dropped sharply on speculation results for the year would suffer from a decision to boost loan-loss provisions.
Its shares were suspended on Tuesday for the earnings report and last traded at 22.50 ringgit on Monday.
The company's latest earnings report did not contain details on its loan-loss provision, but more details may come out at a press briefing at the close of trading. Analysts will meet management on Thursday to review results.
Concerns about loan losses centred on troubled steel company Perwaja Steel and ailing Singapore property and trading company Amcol Holdings Ltd.
Analysts said on Tuesday it was difficult to tell if Maybank had boosted its loan-loss provision based on the earnings report, although several said it appeared no big increase had been made.
"Margins did improve quite substantially," said an analyst at Vickers Ballas, adding that operating costs were "quite well managed".
Several analysts said loan growth of 15 percent was slightly disappointing. In addition, "deposit growth was tiny," said Tony Shue of Jupiter Securities.
Deposits from customers grew 13 percent year on year. An analyst with a foreign research house said the pace reflected "a lot of competition for funds" within the Malaysian banking industry.
Police investigating Belgium's child sex scandal have discovered more cells in the basement of another house connected with Marc Dutroux who has been charged with abduction and illegal imprisonment of children.
During a search of the house in the Charleroi suburb of Marchienne-au-Pont, police found the cells with evidence that they had been occupied by children.
The house had been occupied by Michel Lelievre, an associate of Dutroux who faces the same charges.
Belgian television showed pictures on Tuesday of deep, narrow trenches cut into the cellar floor. The television said police believed Dutroux had kept kidnapped children in the trenches before passing them on for sex.
Dutroux was charged on Friday after police rescued 14-year-old Laetitia Delhez and 12-year-old Sabine Dardenne from a makeshift dungeon in another of his houses in Charleroi.
The convicted child rapist then led police to the bodies of eight-year-olds Julie Lejeune and Melissa Russo in the garden of another of Dutroux' houses at Sars-La-Buissiere near Charleroi.
The two girls were kidnapped in June 1995. They starved to death in February or March this year.
Dutroux has also admitted abducting teenagers An Marchal and Eefje Lambrecks in August last year.
Their whereabouts are unknown, but Belgian police contacted a number of other countries on Tuesday through Interpol in search of clues.
CompuServe Inc., the No. 2 online service, Tuesday reported a $29.6 million fiscal first-quarter loss and said it would cut 150 jobs, or 4 percent of its work force, as part of a $30 million cost-cutting programme.
The loss of $29.6 million, or 32 cents a share, in the fiscal first quarter ended July 31, compared with last year's quarterly profit of $26.8 million, or 36 cents a share.
The company said it expected losses to continue into the second fiscal quarter due to the costs of new product introduction, but predicted improved earnings in the second half of fiscal 1997.
The oldest major online service, second only to America Online Inc., reported total revenues of $208.6 million for the quarter vs. $186.5 million in the previous year's quarter.
CompuServe announced its financial results after markets closed. Its stock dropped 12.5 cents to $13.50 on Nasdaq in earlier trading.
Indonesian tobacco tycoon Putera Sampoerna sharply raised on Tuesday his offer for Singapore's Transmarco Ltd as its share price surged, a move which dealers said was likely to make the bid successful.
Standard Chartered Merchant Bank Asia said on Tuesday that Miel Investment Corp, wholly owned by Sampoerna, had raised its takeover offer for Transmarco to Singapore $8.55 per share from S$6.50 bid at the weekend.
Transmarco, a trading and telecommunications firm, had suspended its share trading in mid-afternoon on Tuesday pending the announcement.
"It looks like Sampoerna is serious. I think he will be able to get more than 51 percent. Sukamto is likely to sell most of his stake to him as he might not be able to unload that much in the market," one head of institutional sales at a local brokerage told Reuters.
Indonesian-born Sukamto Sia garnered 55 percent of the company with a bid of S$6.50 per share in late 1994. He later stepped down as chairman and director and has since reduced his stake to 36.2 percent.
Sampoerna, who controls PT Hanjaya Mandala, Indonesia's largest clove cigarette maker, accumulated 8.8 million shares for a 32.1 percent stake in Transmarco by August 17. The move, made through his British Virgin Island-incorporated investment vehicle Miel Investment Corp, triggered a mandatory takeover offer.
Dealers said Sukamto was expected to bail out of Transmarco.
Sukamto is the second-largest shareholder of troubled Amcol Holdings, which is being rescued by Indonesian conglomerate Sinar Mas.
"I think Sukamto is looking to get out, now that his credibility is dented by what's happened at Amcol and banks could be squeezing him," said one dealer.
Dealers said Malaysian-owned investment company Stratford Holdings could also sell its stake to Sampoerna. Stratford has reduced its stake to 13.4 percent from 22.4 percent in recent weeks, selling 2.4 million shares for between S$4.11 and S$9.72.
Stratford bought the shares at S$13.50 each earlier in the year. Dealers said they believed some of Stratford's shares were bought by Sampoerna.
"On paper, the Malaysians could be making a loss but they could be compensated in other ways -- like future deals with Sampoerna," said a trader.
Minority shareholders, however, were more likely to sell their shares in the market as Transmarco's share price has surged above S$8.55. It hit a high of S$10 on Tuesday and was at S$9.80 when trading was suspended.
Before Sampoerna made his initial weekend offer, Transmarco shares had last traded in the open market at S$6.75.
"I think the price could keep rising and may even hit S$12 tomorrow (Wednesday)" said a dealer. Transmarco is expected to resume trading on Wednesday.
Dealers said they expected the share price to stay firmly above S$9.00, at least for the period of the offer.
But one dealer raised the concern of how long the share price could stay at such stratospheric levels.
"The key question is, who is doing the buying in the market? Funds will not be there until they know what Sampoerna intends to do with the company. At such high prices, it is not exactly cheap for punters," said the head of sales at the local brokerage.
Dealers said Sampoerna could be aiming to use Transmarco as a listing vehicle to spearhead his business in Asia.
Marubeni Corp and GE Capital Services, a wholly owned financial unit of General Electric Co, will hold a news conference here on Wednesday at 2 p.m. (0500 GMT) regarding a joint stock transaction, the firms said on Tuesday.
Officials from the two companies will discuss GE Capital's purchase of certain third party shares from Marubeni, they said in a statement.
No further information was available.
Medtronic Inc said Tuesday it acquired the assets of the Sensors Business Unit of Drager Medical Electronics of Best, the Netherlands.
Financial terms were not disclosed.
Through its sensors unit, Drager Medical offers two families of catheter-based pressure-monitoring products, both designed to be compatible with modern external patient monitoring equipment, Medtronic said.
Microtransducer catheters for neurological, cardiovascular and urodynamic applications are grouped into one product family. The second features the Ventconrol MTC designed for placement in the ventricles of the brain, enabling continuous drainage of cerebrospinal fluid while simultaneously monitoring intracranal pressure.
Buying by domestic institutional funds helped Indian shares recover on Tuesday but the undercurrent was shaky after Monday's sharp fall, brokers said.
The 30-share BSE index rose 34.57 points, or 1.05 percent, to 3,316.06 after plunging 101.26 points on Monday.
The 50-stock NSE index gained 1.0 point at 977 with the net traded value at 10.35 billion rupees in 53.04 million shares.
The 500-share CRISIL index gained 0.61 points to 666.83.
"It was a combination of local fund buying and short covering," one trader said, referring to the gains. "We'll have to wait till tomorrow to see where the market is headed."
He said the close of weekly account on the NSE eased speculative selling pressure and forced short covering.
Traders said foreign institutional investors (FIIs) continued to sell shares of bank firm SBI which plans to issue global depositary receipts (GDRs) for up to $500 million.
However, SBI stock ended 2.25 rupees higher at 266.25 helped by reports it would benefit by 2.0 billion rupees in excess depreciation on government securities in 1995/96 (April-March).
Local fund buying helped TISCO gain 3.25 rupees at 183.75, TELCO 10.0 at 465 and BSES 3.50 at 180.50.
Bajaj Auto rallied 17.50 rupees to 990, Hindalco 12.0 to 950, Indian Hotels 9.50 to 767.50, Ranbaxy 8.50 to 608.75, Hind Lever 8.0 to 826.75, Reliance 6.0 to 201 and ITC 4.0 to 286.
The Delhi share index gained 7.07 points to 773.86 and the Calcutta index was up 1.82 points at 441.53. The Madras index finished 22.98 points lower at 3,528.91.
A senior Corsican politician, fresh from escaping a bomb attack, said on Tuesday the French Mediterranean island was headed for a new flare-up of separatist violence which could spread to the mainland.
"I fear that we are heading away from a peace process towards violence in Corsica as well as on the mainland," former French industry minister Jose Rossi said hours after police defused a bomb on his doorstep.
The device was defused on Monday night outside his Ajaccio flat after an anonymous telephone warning. Police said Rossi, who heads the elected council of southern Corsica, had been scheduled to spend the night at his flat, which is occupied by his daughter and son-in-law.
Hours after the attack, the first direct one against Rossi, a powerful bomb damaged the office of the central government representative in Sartene early on Tuesday, wrecking his car.
It was the fifth bombing of a public building on the island in just over a week.
No one has claimed responsibility for the attacks, but Corsican separatists seeking greater autonomy from mainland France regularly target government buildings in a guerrilla campaign that has been going on for two decades.
The justice ministry said last week that violence would not "diminish its determination to seek out and and punish the perpetrators of terrorist acts".
Rossi said the flare-up of violence may stem from confusion after secret talks reported between the government and a separatist movement.
"There must be no doublespeak which lets nationalists hope for things that we cannot give them...Nationalists also must say clearly what they want," he told France 2 television.
Prime Minister Alain Juppe, visiting the island last month, announced a policy of economic aid twinned with new-found toughness to restore law and order after judges on the island complained the state was too lax on guerrilla violence.
A new, $225 million domed stadium for the Detroit Lions football team would be partially financed with bonds sold by Wayne County and Detroit, local government officials said Tuesday.
Under a financing agreement announced at a news conference, Wayne County would issue $80 million of revenue bonds backed by yet-to-be-approved, so-called tourist taxes, Detroit would issue $15 million of limited tax general obligation bonds and the Detroit Downtown Development Authority may issue an additional $30 million of bonds for the project.
The county would also raise $20 million for stadium land acquisition and infrastructure costs principally from the sale of surplus land.
The Lions, meanwhile, would contribute $50 million toward the stadium and would be responsible for raising an additional $50 million in corporate contributions.
The 65,000 to 75,000-seat domed stadium would be part of a sports complex in downtown Detroit that would also house a new ballpark for the Detroit Tigers baseball team.
"This isn't about baseball or football," said Mike Duggan, deputy Wayne County executive. "This is about a blow for the rebirth of the city."
Earlier in the day, city, county and team officials announced that the Lions would leave their Pontiac Silverdome home and return to Detroit, the city the team left in 1975.
Under the agreement, Wayne County and Detroit would form a six-member stadium authority that would lease the football and baseball stadiums to the teams.
The teams, which would have to commit to 35-year leases, would keep ticket and most concession revenues from the facilities, but would be responsible for operating the stadiums. Each team would also be responsible for any cost overruns on their stadiums.
As for the bond issues, Wayne County plans to place a referendum on the Nov. 5 ballot asking voters to approve a 30-year, 1 percent hotel/motel tax and 2 percent rental car tax to raise the revenues needed to pay off the $80 million of bonds.
The Detroit City Council would have to approve the city's $15 million bond issue. Detroit, through its downtown development authority, raised $40 million earlier this year through a tax increment financing bond issue for infrastructure costs related to the new ballpark.
Meanwhile, the new city-county stadium authority has a Nov. 1 deadline under the agreement to assemble definate land purchase prices for the sports complex. If the deadline is not met, the teams can pull out of the deal.
The Lions team also has a Nov. 1 deadline for raising the $50 million of corporate contributions or the governments would pull the plug.
No state of Michigan money would be involved in the football stadium, according to officials. Gov. John Engler has already committed $55 million of Native American gaming revenues funnelled through the Michigan Strategic Fund for infrastructure-related costs for the ballpark.
The constitutionality of that contribution, which had been contested by a group trying to preserve the present Tigers Stadium, was upheld earlier this month by the Michigan Supreme Court.
Tigers management has yet to disclose how they will raise $145 million for the ballpark itself.
An opening date of April 1998 has been targeted for the new Tigers' stadium, but no completion date was mentioned by officials for the football stadium.
Lions officials have said they would honor their lease, which runs through 2004, for the Silverdome.
A boy aged about eight was involved in a bank robbery in Sao Paulo, Brazilian police said on Tuesday.
A Sao Paulo police spokesman said the boy and two gunmen raided a bank in the city's upmarket Itaim-Bibi neighbourhood on Monday and got away with 83,000 reais ($83,000).
The two men overwhelmed guards, while the boy took money from the cash tills and stuffed it in a bag.
The robbers took the bank manager and a female employee hostage to get out of the bank and let them go before escaping by car, the spokesman said.
"The violence does not cease to surprise us," O Globo newspaper quoted police officer Alexandre Viana as saying. "First it was middle class teenagers and now we have a child involved in an assault."
Brazil's central bank signaled a new weaker trading level for the real currency by buying dollars at 1.014 real per dollar and selling dollars at 1.019 real per dollar in the buy/sell tender in the commercial foreign exchange market, dealers said.
Under the previous mini-band set on Friday, the real was traded between 1.013 and 1.018 per dollar.
NOTE - Canon Sales Co Ltd is the sole distributor of Canon products in Japan.
The International Amateur Athletic Federation may strip national bodies of their powers to punish drug cheats, a senior IAAF official said on Tuesday.
IAAF general secretary Istvan Gyulai said the sport's world ruling body would consider amending its rules to centralise the process of sentencing athletes who return positive dope tests.
Two athletes -- Australian sprinter Dean Capobianco and Italian high jumper Antonella Bevilacqua  -- were allowed to compete at the Atlanta Olympics after failing drugs tests before the Games.
"When we faced the Capobianco case in Atlanta we came to the conclusion our rules would probably have to be amended," Gyulai told a news conference in Sydney ahead of the world junior championships starting on Wednesday.
Asked if this meant the IAAF assuming the right to suspend athletes, Gyulai said: "If necessary, yes".
Both Capobianco and Bevilacqua were freed to compete in Atlanta after lodging appeals with their respective national bodies, as allowed under current IAAF rules.
Capobianco tested positive for the steroid stanozolol at a meeting in the Dutch town of Hengelo in May but an Athletics Australia tribunal dismissed the charge, citing flaws in the testing process.
Bevilacqua was caught twice with the banned stimulant ephedrine in her body in May. An Italian athletics panel decided she had taken the drug by mistake and did not impose the usual three-month ban.
The IAAF said in Atlanta last month they decided not to ban the two athletes from the Olympics because they said they feared being taken to court and sued.
Instead, the cases were referred to the International Olympic Committee's Court of Arbitration for Sport (CAS).
Gyulai described the IAAF's case against Capobianco as watertight but added the federation would abide by the CAS's decision, which he said would be "final and binding".
Athletics Australia president David Prince said the CAS hearing was likely to be held in Monte Carlo next month.
Bevilacqua's case is due to go to an arbitration hearing and her Atlanta result may be cancelled if it goes against her.
She came fourth in the high jump in Atlanta. On her return to Italy she said she would not be competing again this year.
Technology Flavors & Fragrances Inc said on Tuesday it appointed Joseph Gemmo as its chief financial officer.
Gemmo was most recently chief financial officer of Bio-Bontanica, a company involved in herbal extracts.
Technology Flavors has not had a chief financial officer for nearly a year and the company's secretary-treasurer was previously fulfilling the chief financial officer's duties, a company spokesman said.
-The head of Oakland County, Mich., took aim Tuesday at county support for bonds issued for Detroit's convention center in the wake of the Detroit Lions football team's decision to eventually leave the Pontiac Silverdome for a new home in Detroit.
In a statement, Oakland County Executive L. Brooks Patterson said it was hypocritical for his county to send $4.5 million in hotel/motel taxes each year to help pay off $167 million of bonds issued for Detroit's Cobo Hall convention center.
"Then Detroit turns around and uses the dollars we contribute to build a pool of cash that allows them to raid Oakland County business," Patterson said.
Rumblings last year of a possible Lions move to Detroit led Patterson to push for Michigan legislation allowing his county and others to yank revenues from the Cobo Hall bonds, according to Robert Dustman, Patterson's spokesman.
That bill was still being drafted earlier this summer, according to an aide to assistant Senate majority leader Michael Bouchard, R-Birmingham.
The bill would allow Oakland, Macomb and Wayne counties to keep revenues from their lodging taxes and apply them to their own tourism or economic development initiatives. The state would also be prohibited from diverting the fund to pay off the $167 million of revenue bonds Detroit sold in 1985 and refinanced in 1993 to expand Cobo Hall.
Revenues from a state-wide liquor tax would still be available to pay off the bonds under the proposed bill. Detroit officials have said the liquor tax generated enough revenues to cover debt service on the bonds, which were rated single-A by Standard & Poor's Corp.
Dustman said that in light of the Lion's decision to build a new stadium in Detroit, he expected Patterson would encourage Bouchard to introduce the bill.
Bouchard was not available to comment Tuesday on whether he would introduce a bill this fall.
In his statement, Patterson also raised the specter that the team's decision to relocate to Detroit spelled the end of the Silverdome.
"It now appears that at some point in the future the city of Pontiac will be saddled with a $50 million stadium that is paid for with taxpayer dollars and is destined to be levelled by the wrecking ball," he said.
Patterson also said that the Lions and Pontiac were only $25 million to $30 million apart on negotiations on the team's lease for the Silverdome, which ends in 2004.
The Lions and Detroit and Wayne County officials announced Tuesday morning a plan to build a 65,000-seat domed stadium in downtown Detroit next to a new ballpark planned for the Detroit Tigers baseball team.
Pontiac officials were not available to comment on the news.
Earlier this month Pontiac's general obligation bond rating was upgraded by Standard & Poor's to BBB from BB-plus. The possible move by the Lions out of the Silverdome, however, was not seen as a potential credit problem by the agency.
About $23 million of revenue bonds issued through a stadium authority are outstanding for the Silverdome, with most of the bonds -- $13.5 million -- maturing in 2004 and the remainder in 2006, according to Pontiac officials.
NOTE - Li & Fung is an export company.
Nigeria needs $859 million and 13.2 billion naira in local currency to repair its four refineries over an 18 month-period and stop recurring shortfall of oil products, the national news agency reported on Tuesday.
It quoted Dahiru Bayero, managing director of Nigerian National Petroleum Corp (NNPC), as saying in the capital Abuja that rehabilitating the refineries with that amount of money was the only way to make them attain optimum output.
Nigeria's four refineries have a combined capacity of 445,000 barrels per day but are plagued by several operational problems, limiting their output to less than half their installed capacity.
As a result Nigeria has had to import petroleum products to minimise fuel shortages.
Bayero said apart from the refinery in southeastern Port-Harcourt, the other three -- in northern Kaduna, mid-western Warri and southeastern Elele -- had been in operation for more than 15 years.
The current low level of funding of the NNPC was also responsible for its inability to carry out all maintenance work on the refineries, he said.
"NNPC receives only 1.7 naira for every litre of petroleum sold while the PTF (Petroleum Trust Fund) receives 5.2 naira and the marketers get 1.3 naira."
Bayero said the amount received by NNPC was not enough to cover production costs and suggested a review of the sharing formula so that NNPC gets five naira per litre.
Australia's economic outlook is for another year of strong growth and subdued inflation, the Australian Treasury said in the 1996/97 Budget papers.
Business investment, particularly construction, was again set to lead the growth charge, reinforced by robust private and public consumption and a turnaround in the housing market.
That was expected to deliver growth of 3.5 percent in the average measure of gross domestic product (GDP-A) in 1996/97, off slightly from the 4.1 pace reached in 1995/96.
This measure is targetted by the Reserve Bank which aims to set monetary policy to keep it within a 2-3 percent range over the course of a business cycle.
Headline inflation would fall further, averaging 2.0 percent for the year from 4.2 percent in 1995/96, thanks to recent cuts in mortgage rates, Treasury said.
A near-boom was seen in non-dwelling construction courtesy of major engineering projects for the Sydney Olympics in 2000, mining infrastrucutre and general road building.
Over the year, Treasury expected construction to rise by 15 percent, while spending on plant and equipment would only be a shade behind at 14 percent.
Export growth was seen slowing somewhat to an annual 8.0 percent from 10.3 percent in 1996/97 as transitory effects, such as the breaking of the drought, fade away.
Overall, net exports were expected to detract about 0.75 point from GDP-A in the year ahead.
The current account deficit, however, was seen remaining relatively steady at A$20 billion, or 4.0 percent of GDP, thanks to an improvement in Australia's terms of trade.
That would not be fast enough to make inroads into the unemployment rate which was seen steady at 8.5 percent.
A slow recovery in the housing market was expected to begin during the course of 1996/97, spurred by falling mortgage rates and rising household income. However, the stock of excess housing was so great the Treasury expected dwelling investment would still fall 3.0 percent over the year.
Moody's Investors Service said on Wednesday the potential sale of one-third of telecommunications carrier Telstra Corp by the Australian government was unlikely to have ratings implications unless it was accompanied by changes in the company's operating structure or dividend policy.
SOLIDERE shares fell slightly on Tuesday on the privately-operated Beirut Secondary Market (BSM).
The A series shares -- distributed to former holders of property rights in the Beirut central district SOLIDERE is rebuilding -- closed at $104.625 from $104.75 on Monday.
B series shares -- issued in a $650-million subscription in January 1994 -- closed at $106.00, down from $106.125.
Turnover on the BSM, which trades only SOLIDERE shares, dropped to 8,522 from Monday's 10,718 with value at $671,944, down from $1,123,699.
On the Beirut Stock Exchange only 6,900 shares of Ciments Libanais were traded at $1.1875 each.
There was no trade in any of the three other listed companies: Ciments Blancs, Eternit and Uniceramic.
The BLOM Stock Index which covers both markets fell 0.1 percent to 901.83 while the LISPI index fell 0.03 percent to 81.52.
Silver fixed at its highest level since June 19, 1996 on Tuesday morning following buying by speculators late on Monday in New York.
Silver fixed at $5.2025 an ounce, up 12 cents from Monday's fix and eight cents above Monday's London close.
It had eased a bit as dealers took their profits in early European business after reaching a peak of $5.26 overnight.
But several dealers said they saw it venturing higher later this week. "There has seen some good hedge-fund buying of silver call options, and also the underlying (silver metal) recently," a dealer said. Silver closed in London at $5.23, up 12 cents.
Options are popular with market speculators as they offer a cheap way into betting on price movements.
An option gives its owner the right but not the obligation to buy or sell a commodity at a set price at some specified future date.
"It's a purely technical move, but I can see it going for $5.30 this week," the dealer added.
Gold's reaction was half-hearted. The yellow metal closed just 90 cents firmer at $387.55.
"Gold has had a bit of a dismal performance. The move seems to be just in silver," one dealer said.
The grains markets which headlined the commodities' markets on Monday turned lower on forecasts of more favourable growing wheather in the North American wheat regions.
"The chances of frost were taken out of the forecasts for Canada," a Chicago-based trader said.
On the Chicago Board of Trade futures markets at 0945 CDT, wheat for September delivery was down 2-1/2 cents at $4.57.
September corn was down 1-1/2 cents at $3.62-1/2 and August soybeans were down 1-3/4 cents at $8.13.
Industrial metals were quiet with copper prices coming back $11.00 on the London Metal Exchange from $1,942 at Monday's close after stocks in the exchange's warehouses recorded a rise of 5,000 tonnes to 266,000 tonnes.
Dealers said the market's stock overhang had reduced the anxiety earlier in the year of finding metal to deliver to customers. Aluminium was only $1.00 lower at $1,489.
White sugar futures put in a fairly robust performance, though the lack of strong fundamental news capped the market below key resistance near the $355.50 area, traders said.
December cocoa futures raced to a six week high, then eased below 1,040 stg in modest activity. By mid afternoon the December contract was up 12 stg at 1,037 stg.
The coffee price reaction modestly to a drop of 6,259 60-kg bags in the U.S. certified coffee stockpile to 34,516 bags.
The November contract was up only $3 at $1,660 as the fall was within forecasters' expectations.
Greek financial consultants Alpha Trust issued a buy reccomendation on cement producer Titan, metals trading firm Mytilineos and financial advisor Alpha Finance in its August review.
Alha Finance, a subsidiary of Alpha Credit Bank, derives its income mainly from mutual fund management and holds a 50 percent stake in Alpha Mutual Funds.
"Income from this source is expected to grow by 50 percent this year as assets under management reached 800 billion drachmas in June. Expenses are low and controllable thus providing a gross profit margin of 70.4 percent," Alpha Trust said.
Shares of Alpha Finance which entered the bourse in 1995 have a 52 week gain of 25.6 percent and are trading at a 1996 price earnings ratio (P/E) of 5.2, it said.
Metals trading company Mytilineos, one of the largest suppliers to Greece's metallurgy and construction sectors saw first quarter profits rise 124 percent on turnover growth of 133 percent at 17 billion drachmas.
"The company is expected to make new agreements with mines in the Balkans. First quarter growth is expected to stabilise at lower levels by year end with earnings growth of 28 percent. The shares are trading at 9.4 times 1996 earnings," Alpha Trust said.
The stock has slipped by 5.2 percent in the last three months.
Alpha Trust is also bullish on cement producer Titan expecting strong earnings this year.
"Titan and Heracles Cement are expected to finalise their agreement with Halkis Cement as each will obtain a 25 percent stake in Halkis. This will boost earnings and stop the price war," it said.
It sees earnings growth of 15 percent this year with the blue chip trading at a P/E of 10.1. Shares of Titan have gained 30.1 percent in the last 12 months.
Alpha Trust also gave a hold rating to metallurgy concern Erlikon which has retreated 5.0 percent in the last three months.
Australia's government committed about A$1.4 million in the 1996/97 budget for research into establishing an equity market for small and medium-sized enterprises (SMEs), including start-ups, Industry, Science and Tourism minister John Moore said on Tuesday.
A further A$1.12 million would be spent on implementing the alternative market in the following two years, he said .
"This may be due partly to the fact that SMEs have limited access to a formal market for the buying and selling of stocks or shares to raise equity capital," Moore said.
However, he acknowledged that barriers exist to establishing a market specifically for this group.
"The size of the Australian market may constrain liquidity and the quality of the listings," Moore said.
German economists grew more confident that a cut in the Bundesbank's main money market rate was on the cards after the central bank said on Tuesday that M3 money supply growth slowed in July.
Growth in M3, the German central bank's main policy guide, slowed to an annualised 8.6 percent in July from 9.6 percent in June, the Bundesbank said.
The figure was at the lower end of the forecast range.
Analysts polled by Reuters predicted seasonally-adjusted annualised July M3 growth compared with the level in the final quarter of 1995, in a range of 8.5 to 9.2 percent.
Forecasts averaged 8.8 percent.
Although the July figure remains well above a seven percent target ceiling, economists said they were now optimistic that growth could come into the target range by the end of the year and that this could persuade the central bank to ease policy.
Ulrich Beckmann at DB Research responded warmly to the figure. "It was at the lower end of our expectation, which was 8.6 to 9.1 percent," he said.
"It is now very clear that we have a very good chance to reach the Bundesbank target zone (of four to seven percent growth for 1996). I think there is a very good chance that we will see a cut in the repo rate," he added.
Uwe Angenendt, economist at BHF-Bank in Frankfurt, said in an initial reaction, "Monetary expansion has slowed considerably. This is a very good sign for the Bundesbank on Thursday. I expect a repo rate cut of 10 to 20 basis points."
But the reaction in German financial markets was muted.
The German share market showed little reaction to the figure. In the bond market, where traders had become increasingly optimistic that the figure would come in below forecast, Bund futures eased marginally.
Sven Oehl at BZW in Frankfurt commented, "Bunds ticked up right after the number but fell down to almost an unchanged level. It was what the market was looking for. It was pretty much a neutral figure.
"I think a repo rate cut has definitely been factored into the market considering the Euromark contracts. We are waiting to see the final cut. If we do not get it this week, we will look to the next meeting. It would become an ongoing game."
Germany's central bank has been hinting repeatedly at the chances for a cut in its repo rate since April, when it lowered its discount and Lombard rates by 1/2 point each to 2.50 percent and 4.50 percent respectively.
It has linked the prospect for a further repo rate easing to a slowdown in M3 growth, which notched up runaway double-digit monthly rates in the first half of 1996.
Nick Stamenkovic at DKB International said, "Today's figures have certainly increased the chance for a move. (Bundesbank chief economist) Issing hinted at the increased chance for a move last week. I think on balance they will cut the repo rate."
But economists also feel that it may be time for the central bank to give Germany's economic recovery a boost with a small easing, and are keenly awaiting July business confidence data from the respected Ifo Institute due out on Wednesday.
The Ifo data will give a measure of confidence in the economic recovery, sorely needed after very weak winter months.
The Ukrainian Foreign Ministry denied on Tuesday a report by Taiwanese television that Vice-President Lien Chan's secretive journey was taking him to the former Soviet republic.
"We have no information at all on this visit. There is no visit," Valentyn Adomaitis, head of the ministry's Asia-Pacific department, told Reuters. "Our policy towards Taiwan is clear -- it's part of China. We have no official ties with Taipei and we have always strongly followed this line."
Taiwan Television had reported that after ending a visit to the United States Lien Chan made a brief stopover in Vienna and then flew to the Ukrainian capital.
The broadcast, which gave no source for the information, followed a flurry of rumours that Lien had arrived in various European nations.
China regards Nationalist-ruled Taiwan as a rebel province ineligible for foreign ties and has sought to isolate it diplomatically since a civil war separated them in 1949.
Adomaitis said Ukraine maintains only economic relations with Taiwan with no political or diplomatic ties. Ukrainian and Chinese leaders signed a joint declaration two years ago stressing that Kiev recognises "a single China" policy.
"I cannot exclude that Taiwan's leader might make a brief transit stopover in Ukraine but we also have no information on that," Adomaitis said by telephone. "We do not follow the leaders of states with whom we have no relations."
Ukraine views China as one of its most important trading partners, with annual bilateral trade volume of almost $1 billion.
Several Ukrainian politicians have visited Taiwan since Kiev gained independence from Moscow five years ago but Ukraine has only recently started considering allowing the presence of a Taiwanese trade mission, a move tolerated by China.
The Chinese yuan is likely to continue to rise after repeatedly hitting closing year-highs over the past few weeks, but room for further gains will be limited, analysts said on Tuesday.
A rising trade surplus and record level of foreign exchange reserves would help support the yuan but the central bank would prevent it going to high, they said.
The local currency closed lower on Tuesday for the first time since July 24, at 8.3065 against the U.S. dollar. It had repeatedly hit year-highs but was unable to overcome a closing rate of 8.3059 on August 15, 1995, its record high.
"The first fall in a month means that the yuan has begun to meet resistance after continuous rises in the past month," said one trader on the Shanghai-based interbank foreign exchange market, the China Foreign Exchange Trade System.
"But market fundamentals have not changed and factors boosting the renminbi are still there," he added. "In the next month or so, the yuan will continue to rise and will meet strong resistance only at the 8.3000 level."
Traders said main factors supporting the local currency were China's improving trade figures and rising foreign exchange reserves.
China posted an unexpectedly high trade surplus of $1.13 billion in July, its second month of surplus after five successive months of deficits, giving it a January-July surplus of $2.1 billion.
Early this year, Beijing predicted a rough trade balance for 1996 after a hefty surplus of $16.7 billion last year. Now it is expecting a $3.0 billion surplus this year.
"Foreign exchange supply clearly exceeds demand," said a Shanghai-based banker with the Bank of China. "This has been reflected in surging reserves."
Foreign exchange reserves surged to a record $86.6 billion at the end of June, up from $73.5 billion at end-1995.
Other factors include rising direct foreign investment in China, which hit $19.6 billion in the first half of this year, up a year-on-year 20 percent.
"The yuan is now just below its highest point last year in August 1995," said a foreign exchange trader. "Technical charts show it will not be able to go far away from the 8.3000 level. We believe it will hit that level around the end of September."
The analysts also believe the People's Bank of China will not allow the yuan to rise too sharply.
"The central bank has insisted that the renminbi should be stable instead of fluctuating sharply," said a banking analyst. "It has intervened in the past to prevent it from rising too sharply and will do in the future."
Traders said they expected the central bank would most likely intervene again at the 8.3000 level.
At least 22 people were killed and another 20 hurt in Ecuador on Tuesday when a cement truck crashed into roadside food stalls installed for a religious procession.
A judge from the district of Loja, 400 miles (645 km) south of the capital Quito, confirmed that 22 were dead, but some of the 20 wounded died later in a hospital, local radio reported.
The truck smashed into more than 20 food stalls, which had been placed along the road in preparation for an early morning procession to honour the Virgin Mary, killing those inside. The driver fled the scene of the accident.
The Croatian average lending rate rose 40 basis points to 9.3 percent on Tuesday boosted by higher rates on some of the interbank kuna loans.
Zagreb's Money Market total settlements rose to 84.6 million kuna against the supply of 130 million, most of which were previous placements rolled over at new rates.
Call money moved up to 9.3 from 9 percent, and insurance firms' five-10 day rate also rose to 8.7 from 8 percent.
Dealers said state investment bank HBOR rolled over 45 million kuna at a lower rate of 9.5 percent, down from 10 percent on Monday.
Overnight trade left a surplus of 335.4 million on the supply side after six commercial banks with shortfalls squared their positions. One bank bought funds for maintaining its reserve payments.
is Mostostal Export SA.
Alfacell Corp said Tuesday it has begun a new trial comparing its therapeutic protein, Onconase, in combination with tomoxifen, to Gemzar in treating patients with advanced pancreatic cancer.
The latest trial is supposed to compare the survival rate and quality of life of patients with pancreatic cancer.
Alfacell believes it will offer important information that compares the efficacy and safety of the two regimens.
Onconase is being used in the investigational treatment of patients with solid tumors, most of which are resistant to other chemotherapy drugs, the company said.
NOTE: Full company name is Renaissance Entertainment Corp.
Increase in 1996 Q1 sales mainly reflects initial seven- week run of Virginia Renaissance Faire.
Operating loss in Q1 1996 reflects losses incurred at opening of Virginia Faire and decrease in revenues at Southern California Faire.
-- "We are upgrading our long term rating from accumulate to buy as we believe that the long-term outlook for the stock is positive given the expected growth in the automotive sector," it said in a report.
-- Merrill Lynch also said it was maintaining its strong earnings projections for the second half of the year, but added "it was adjusting its 1996 profits estimates downward to 285 million reais from 311.6 million reais to reflect the second quarter's under-performance."
-- It said Usiminas' net income came in at 42.5 million reais, substantially below their projection of 64.6 million reais for the second quarter.
-- Usiminas preferred was up 0.93 percent at 1.09 reais at 1110 local/1410 GMT on the Sao Paulo bourse.
Mexico's Trade Ministry said Tuesday the government had decided to stand by a 1993 decision to impose compensatory import tariffs on hot and cold rolled steel plate imports.
The ministry said requests to revise the tariffs did not succeed. "In both cases, the ministry considered that the companies that asked for the revisions did not supply sufficient proof...that allowed for a change in the imposed tariffs," it said.
The ministry confirmed that the current tariffs, first set April 28, 1993 after dumping allegations against U.S. companies, remained in place. They are 28.2-28.7 percent for hot-rolled and 12.8 percent for cold rolled.
--Chris Aspin, Mexico City newsroom (525) 7289530.
National stocks of grain, in thousand bushels, as reported by the USDA.
North American bunker prices were mostly higher than late last week, traders said, with firm crude values lending strength to a sluggish market.
New York Harbor 380 CST was talked between $109 and $110 a tonne, $2 higher than values quoted last Thursday, with 180 CST pegged at $114/115, players said.
Houston 380 CST slipped $1 to $96/97, traders said, while 180 CST held steady at $100/102.
Traders reported a mixed bag on the West Coast, with Los Angeles 380 CST falling about $3 to $91/93, and Seattle material moving $3 higher to $96/97.
Continuing strong bunker prices in Singapore were seen offering some support to West Coast prices, traders said.
Six months to June 30.
NOTE - Full name of Norwegian metals producer is Elkem ASA. A Reuter poll of seven analysts forecast first-half operating profits at 623 million crowns and a pre-tax result of 568 million crowns. Five of the analysts recommended a buy on the company, one said hold and one declined to provide a recommendation.
"We've decided to supply 400 billion won today because the liquidity situation has not improved after we've supplied 500 billion won on Monday," said an official at the Bank of Korea.
Money market participants said the RPs were expected to help local banks that were short of cash to meet their won reserve requirement obligations.
Shares in Shell Transport continued higher amid talk brokerages ABN AMRO Hoare Govett, HSBC James Capel and SBC Warburg reiterated buy recommendations on the stock, traders said.
The oil sector has been firming in recent sessions on perceptions oil prices will remain buoyant amid strong demand for crude and products.
While crude oil prices softened in London this morning, after having risen to a four-month high yesterday, Brent crude oil for October delivery remained well above $20 per barrel.
Enterprise Oil also jumped, rising 14p to 510p after reaching a new high for the year at 515p. Enterprise shares got an additional boost because of a stock shortage.
Shares in U.S. oil majors have also shown strength recently. Exxon rose $1-1/8 to $83-1/2 in New York yesterday. Texaco gained $1-3/8 to $89-1/8 and Chevron added $7/8 to $60.
The U.S. Defence Department said it would begin destroying chemical weapons on Thursday at its Toole facility in Utah as its first domestic step toward destroying the entire U.S. chemical arsenal by the year 2004.
It said last week the first weapons to be destroyed at Toole would be M-55 rockets filled with nerve gas.
"This will start the large-scale destruction of chemical weapons," Pentagon spokesman Capt. Mike Doubleday said at a regular defence briefing.
He said an installation on the Johnston Atoll in the Pacific has been destroying the weapons since 1993 but at a low rate. Toole was to be the first of eight locations in the United States that would destroy them.
The United States pledged not to use chemical weapons and must by law destroy its entire arsenal of 3.6 million chemical weapons by 2004. Toole was holding more than 44 percent of the U.S. stockpile of 30,000 tons of chemical weaponry.
"We are eliminating an entire class of weapons and we are doing it in a very safe and secure way," Doubleday said.
Another defence official said the United States no longer needed chemical weapons to deter potential enemies from using them because it has other weapons to overpower a chemical enemy. He said many of the U.S. chemical weapons were obsolete -- for example, the M-55 rockets to be destroyed first no longer have launchers.
The U.S. Defence Department said U.S. District Judge Tena Campbell denied in Salt Lake City on Wednesday a preliminary injunction in a lawsuit brought by private groups led by the Kentucky-based Chemical Weapons Working Group.
It said the judge ruled the groups did not show that the incineration of the weapons would put people around the Toole Chemical Agent Disposal Facility at risk.
It said she wrote that "for individuals living closest to TOCDF, the risks resulting from continued storage are 100 times greater than the risks resulting from disposal operations."
These are some of the leading stories in Syrian newspapers on Tuesday. Reuters has not verified these stories and does not vouch for their accuracy.
- Kuwaiti Crown Prince Sheikh Saad al-Abdulla al-Sabah ends his visit to Syria and stresses identical views on ties and joint Arab action.
- In a provocative act, Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu visits the occupied zone in south Lebanon and threatens escalating attacks against Lebanon.
- Palestinian leader Farouk Kaddoumi says: "Israel does not want peace."
- Lebanese President Elias Hrawi says: "We are committed to coordination with Syria to achieve peace."
- Arab League says "Israeli nuclear armament threatens the pan-Arab security."
- Syrian-Iranian talks continue. Preparations to sign a number of agreements today. Syrian Prime Minister Mahmoud Zu'bi says: "We will not accept any solution that would not achieve total Israeli withdrawal."
Indian call money rates hovered below the 11 percent mark on Tuesday, dealers said.
Call rates opened at 10.25-10.75 percent but crept up to 10.75-10.90 percent in later deals, dealers said. They said call rates appeared to be heading down.
"Some people were quoting 11 percent but I don't think there are any deals at that rate because of (availability of) RBI (Reserve Bank of India) refinance at 11 percent," said a dealer.
Dealers said the secondary market in securities had almost died out following the recent spurt in call rates to double-digits.
The Australian government announced on Tuesday it would grant banks, building societies, credit unions and life insurance companies the right to offer customers Retirement Savings Accounts (RSAs), which give the same tax benefits as normal superannuation funds.
"Their introduction will complement existing arrangements by increasing competition and choice in the superannuation industry, thereby putting downward pressure on fees and charges," he said.
Those offering RSAs must advise their customers of 'balanced portfolio' products offering better returns when their balances reached A$10,000.
"The accounts...will be fully portable, owned and controlled by the member, and subject to the retirement income standards of superannuation products, including preservation," Costello said.
Money in the accounts would therefore not be able to be withdrawn for consumption spending and should be held in a superannuation fund until retirement.
These are the leading stories in the Beirut press on Tuesday. Reuters has not verified these stories and does not vouch for their accuracy.
-Kuwaiti Crown Prince in Beirut.
-Death of one pro-Israeli South Lebanon Army militia officer in south Lebanon blast.
-Mount Lebanon elections...the first step towards a parliament without opposition.
-Hizbollah: We will not run on pro-government lists in either south Lebanon or the Bekaa Valley elections.
-Economy Minister Jaber: a common Arab market is needed.
-President Hrawi: Lebanon will stick to the Madrid principles of land-for-peace.
-Netanyahu: We will not stand with our hands tied in the face of Hizbollah attacks.
-Interest rates down on treasury bills.
-Gross Domestic Product growth was slightly up in Q2 1996 but remains well below the seven percent forecast for the year, partly due to an Israeli blitz in April, Banque Audi said.
GPU Inc on Tuesday filed a shelf registration for up to seven million common shares with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
Net proceeds will be used to repay a portion of the debt incurred by the GPU International Group to acquire its interest in Midlands, GPU said in a filing with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
GPU may also us the net proceeds to make cash capital contributions ot its subsidiaries, the filing said.
The underwriters were not named in the filing.
A Belgian court will decide later on Tuesday whether to formally charge a fourth suspect in a Belgian child sex scandal in which two eight-year old girls have died and at least four others were abducted.
"The decision will be this afternoon," said Clement de Clety, lawyer of Brussels businessman Jean-Michel Nihoul who has been detained and faces charges of criminal association.
About the charge, de Clety told reporters that the only point was that Nihoul knew Lelievre and Dutroux.
"(Nihoul) just gave (them) his car for two or three days to repair it and to pass it on to the technical control authorities. These are the only concrete points in the file, nothing more," de Clety said.
Convicted paedophile Marc Dutroux and associate Michel Lelievre were formally charged last Friday after police rescued two abducted young girls from a house owned by Dutroux in the southern town of Charleroi.
Dutroux led police on Saturday to the buried bodies of eight-year-olds Julie Lejeune and Melissa Russo who died of starvation early this year after being kidnapped in June 1995.
Dutroux's wife Michelle Martin was charged on Monday with being an accomplice in the abduction and illegal imprisonment of children.
Belgian media said earlier on Tuesday that the Dutch boyfriend of Nihoul's ex-wife had also been arrested. But court sources said the charges against him had been dropped and that he had just been questioned.
JP Morgan Securities Inc said it tentatively priced $247 million of Austin, Texas, combined utility system revenue refunding bonds, Series 1996 A and B.
The top yield is 5.80 percent in 2025 in the Series B portion of the issue.
WE HAVE A RELEASE.
CALL FEATURES: 11/15/2006 at 100.00.
The award is expected Thursday, August 22, 1996.
Delivery is expected on September 25, 1996.
J.P. Morgan Securities Inc.
Goldman, Sachs & Co.
Merrill Lynch & Co.
Smith Barney Inc.
Artemis Capital Group, Inc.
Estrada Hinojosa & Co.
Grigsby Brandford & Co., Inc.
Legg Mason Wood Walker, Inc.
Rauscher Pierce Refsnes, Inc.
A Liberian faction at the centre of bloody street battles in Liberia's capital Monrovia in April and May has returned heavy weapons seized from peacekeepers in earlier fighting, a U.N. envoy said on Tuesday.
The return of the weapons by the ethnic-Krahn ULIMO-J faction coincided with the deadline for a halt to all fighting under the latest deal to end a civil war that has killed more than 150,000 people.
The West African peacekeepers and a special U.N. representative expressed optimism that a truce would take hold but there was no independent confirmation of what was happening outside the capital.
"We are hopeful that people will keep to their words in keeping with the Abuja accord and we have reasons to believe that they will comply with what they agreed," U.N. envoy Anthony Nyakyi of Tanzania told Reuters.
Nyakyi said that ULIMO-J, which rallied to sacked government minister Roosevelt Johnson with other Krahn factions in April when rivals tried to arrest him for murder, had returned two pieces of artillery to the Nigerian-led peacekeeping force.
The faction seized the weapons during fighting around the western town of Tubmanburg in December and January, when dozens of peacekeepers were killed or taken prisoner.
"This is a significant sign that the ceasefire will hold in western Liberia," Nyakyi said, adding that the United Nations did not have enough military observers to monitor the truce effectively but would do the best it could.
The peace deal, agreed by West African leaders in Nigeria's capital Abuja on Saturday, envisages disarmament of an estimated 60,000 fighters and elections in the middle of next year. It includes the threat of individual sanctions, including war crime trials, against any faction leader impeding progress.
Over a dozen peace deals have failed to end the war launched by faction leader Charles Taylor and his National Patriotic Front of Liberia in late 1989. Taylor is one of two vice-chairmen of an interim ruling State Council.
The Liberia Peace Council, another Krahn faction, accused Taylor's forces on Saturday of attacking its positions in the southeast in Grand Gedeh County. Taylor has not responded and there has been no independent confirmation of the allegation.
A spokesman for the peacekeepers, who deployed in central Monrovia in May to end the fighting and looting that killed hundreds of people, expressed hope that a truce would take hold thoughout the country.
The spokesman was optimistic that the threatened sanctions would force compliance. "These threats will go a long way in helping to implement the peace agreement. Another reason is that everybody seems to be serious about going to elections and to hold elections they must disarm."
Freed American slaves founded Liberia in 1847.
West African leaders, meeting in Abuja on Saturday, named former Liberian senator Ruth Perry to chair the council.
Under the deal, peacekeepers will start disarming the fighters in September. The operation is due to be finished by November. Elections, which should have taken place this month under the previous deal, are currently scheduled for May.
NOTE - Wella said the first six months had been very succesful both in terms of sales and profits. It said its sales growth of 11.3 percent outstripped market growth of less than three percent. It said it had not included non-core business in the first-half accounts becuase of restructuring measures. On a comparable sales basis, sales would have risen by 12.2 percent.
Wella also said it achieved an increase of 7.9 percent in sales to hairdressers despite a stagnating hairdressing market. That exceeded a planned sales rise of five percent. Its sales of haircare products to retailers jumped 21.3 percent, well above expectations.
Sales of scents and cosmetics rose 12.4 percent in the first half due to successful product launches in that business, Wella said.
The company also said that it expects additional fruit-spreads marketing expenses from its Appleseed strategic planning project during the year.
Queensland sugar growers expect a record sugar cane crop this year totalling more than 37 million tonnes, some two million tonnes more than in 1995, Canegrowers chairman Harry Bonanno said.
"Between June and December this year, about 6,300 growers will harvest over 37 million tonnes, our fifth successive record crop," Bonanno told a Sugar 2000 symposium.
"This is extremely creditable when it is considered that it was only in 1993 that we exceeded four million tonnes," he said.
If sugar prices remained reasonably attractive to growers, the Queensland industry had the potential to produce more than six million tonnes by 2003, Bonanno said.
He told the sugar conference that increasing production efficiencies had seen the average 70 hectare farm producing about 5,600 tonnes of cane annually.
Queensland, the world's sixth largest sugar producer, produces more than 95 percent of Australia's raw sugar and virtually all its exports.
In the 1995 season, Australia produced a record 37.39 million tonnes of cane, of which 35.30 million came from Queensland, and 4.98 million tonnes of 94 net titre raws, of which 4.73 million tonnes were from Queensland.
Australia's raws output was the second highest on record.
The minor New South Wales crop is all used domestically.
Australian Treasurer Peter Costello told a meeting of coalition parliamentarians that if budget legislation passes the senate there could be further interest rates reductions.
"If we can get the budget through the senate that will set up the ground for further interest rate cuts," a government member quoted Costello as saying.
Australian police in the state of Queensland said on Tuesday initial concerns for the safety of three Irish backpackers missing in the state's tropical north had eased slightly.
Sandra Mahon, Stuart Gamble and Neil Hewson, all aged 25, were last seen in Cairns on the state's far north coast on Saturday, police said.
"Initially, the young girl rang her father on Saturday calmly, but later telephoned back and said she had been attacked and then the telephone went dead," a police spokeswoman in Cairns told Reuters.
However police late on Tuesday said they had since received some telephone calls that the three may have been inquiring about work north of Cairns.
"We have not come up with anything positive yet, but our initial fears have eased," said a police officer in Cairns.
"We will have more information on Wednesday."
Jordan overnight dinar rates edged higher in a 5.00-5.25 percent range on Tuesday on increased dinar demand, dealers said.
Rates hovered in a 4.00-5.50 pct range on Monday.
Spot Midwest U.S. normal butane held on to strong intraday gains in late trade, players said, jumping over two cents Tuesday amid increased refiner buying interest.
But propane remained lower in both centers tracking September NYMEX crude futures, players said.
Conway normal butane was sold for 45.25 cents a gallon, players said, 2.25 cents higher than Monday. "Some refiners are trying to buy for winter blending," one broker said.
Mont Belvieu normal butane held stable at 46.75/47.25 cents, traders said.
Conway propane was traded for 38.50 cents, about a half cent lower, traders said, while Belvieu propane edged slightly lower to 39.25/39.50 cents, traders said.
CSCE cocoa futures ended sharply higher Tuesday, as a late speculative-led rally triggered buy stops and boosted values some $20 a tonne across-the-board, floor sources said.
But traders said producer selling at the highs trimmed gains, and kept the December contract beneath key resistance at $1,440 a tonne.
Benchmark December cocoa settled up $21 a tonne, to $1,430, after ranging between $1,437 and $1,416. Spot September climbed $19, to $1,379, while the back months gained $16 to $22. Volume was fairly light, at an estimated 4,937 lots.
Cocoa prices bounded higher from the outset, as dealers took their cue from a strong London market. "The market started off strong with London, but it came off highs like London too," one trader said.
One analyst said until updated Ivorian crop estimates emerged near the end of August, the December contract was likely to range between $1,400 and $1,500.
Preliminary forecasts, which pegged the 1996/97 Ivory Coast crop around 800,000 to 900,000 tonnes, have been largely factored into the market, he said, and barring sharp revisions, news from other cocoa producing countries could become the focus.
"The smaller Ivorian crop is well anticipated," the analyst said. "There are other countries having problems, such as Bahia and Ghana."
Australian labour productivity rose 4.7 percent in trend terms in the year to June, the Australian Bureau of Statistics said.
Trend labour productivity growth, as measured in the non-farm market sector, moderated to 0.8 percent in the June quarter, compared to 1.4 percent in the March quarter and 1.7 percent in the December 1995 quarter.
The June quarter growth of 1.2 percent was stronger than the 1.0 percent recorded in the March quarter, but below the 1.4 percent and 1.9 percent growth rates of the September and December 1995 quarters respectively.
The Chicago Board of Trade reported the following stocks of soybeans in Toledo, deliverable against CBOT futures.  (in 000's bu).
The Central Statistics Office reported the following economic indicator details.
PaineWebber Inc said Tuesday it repriced Maine Health and Higher Educational Facilities Authority's $28.5 million deal, lowering yields in several maturities and cutting the top yield in 2026 to approximately 5.874 percent from 5.90 percent.
The award is expected Thursday, August 22, 1996.
Delivery is expected on September 5, 1996.
This issue is book entry through DTC.
A.G. Edwards & Sons, Inc.
Advest, Inc.
Legg Mason Wood Walker, Inc.
Merrill Lynch & Co.
Smith Barney Inc.
NOTE - Cleanup Corp is a comprehensive domestic products manufacturer.
Brazilian Central Bank Foreign Affairs Director Gustavo Franco said he was not concerned about reports the country will post a sizeable trade deficit in July or projections Brazil will end the year in the red.
"Taken on its own, the trade balance doesn't mean anything," he told reporters at a coffee break during a seminar at the Sao Paulo Stock Exchange.
Local newspapers reported Tuesday that Brazil's Industry and Commerce Ministry would release figures showing a $350 million trade deficit for July and analyst predict a year-end gap between $1 billion and $2 billion.
In the past, Franco has said the Central Bank's foreign exchange policy is flexible and that slight modifications in bank forex operations can be used to markedly improve trade figures.
The ministry was expected to release Brazil's July trade balance after 1200 local time/1500 GMT.
Shares in SPT Telecom, as expected, suffered a strong downward correction on the Prague Stock Exhcange, pulling the bourse sharply lower.
SPT shares gained 102 crowns just before Monday's session closed, but dealers had said the move was little more than a last minute accounting procedure, and that the rise did not correspond to market reality.
By the end of the session, their words had been borne out with SPT shares losing 102 crowns to 3,339.
The fall more than offset broader issues gains, dragging the PX50 index down five points, 0.88 percent, to 564.9.
Overall, 201 shares gained ground on the day, while 134 fell and 65 held steady.
"Nobody is surprised by the SPT fall. This happens quite often here when someone moves the price at the end of one session, but the market knows the real price," said one trader.
Banking issues fared well on the day, with Komercni Banka, Ceska Sporitelna and Zivnostenska Banka all posting modest gains.
Most other major issues made only minor moves.
Paracelsus Healthcare Corp and Champion Healthcare Corp, which recently merged, said on Tuesday in a joint statement that Paracelsus set up a rights plan assure minority shareholders are protected from unfair takeover tactics.
The company issued shareholder rights that would make it expensive for a company to make a bid or a partial tender offer without negotiating with the board, Paracelsus said.
The rights, which were issued in the form of a dividend on August 16, 1996, go into effect if 25 percent or more of the voting control of the company changes hands without board approval, Paracelsus treasurer Deborah Frankovich said.
Paracelsus said it has entered a standstill agreement with Park Hospital GmbH, a corporation owned by Paracelsus chairman Dr. Manfred George Krukemeyer, that sets transfer restrictions on Paracelsus voting securities and an obligation for Park Hospital to support certain acquisition proposals involving Paracelsus.
Park Hospital has the right to designate four of nine nominees to the Paracelsus Board and a right of first refusal in connection with certain acquisition proposals, Paracelsus said.
Coffees include decaffeinated and nondecaffeinated, and exclude husks and skins. Concentrated includes instant and nonflavored.
Kerry Group Plc, Ireland's largest food company, said Tuesday that profits jumped 21 percent in the first half of the year despite worries over so-called mad cow disease in Europe.
The company, based in Tralee in County Kerry, said pretax profits rose to 20 million punts ($32.1 million) from 16.5 million punts ($26.5 million) in the first half of 1995. Sales rose 1.5 percent to 589.4 million punts ($945.4 million) from 580.7 million ($931.4 million).
"While the bovine spongiform encephalopathy (BSE) scare did affect sales in some business areas at the end of the first quarter, strong advances in branded product sales in the second quarter" helped boost profits margins, Kerry said in a statement.
In March British government scientists said they had identified a new strain of the human brain disorder Creutzfeldt-Jakob Disease that was most likely linked to eating beef infected with BSE, or mad cow disease.
A British coroner ruled on Monday that a 20-year-old vegetarian who died of Creutzfeldt-Jakob Disease caught it from eating hamburgers as a child, the first ruling linking a human death to mad cow disease. Some government officials and scientists cast doubt on the ruling, however.
After the British government's announcement in March, more than a dozen countries suspended imports of British beef.
Kerry said its ingredients business, bolstered by the $402 million acquisition of the U.S. food ingredients company DCA in 1994, reported a 7 percent increase in operating profits.
On the consumer foods side, Kerry Foods reported a 15 percent increase in operating profits while profit margins also rose.
The group's agribusiness division also reported a profit for the first half.
Chairman Michael Hanrahan said the company would focus on maximizing the potential of its fruit ingredients business across Europe after acquiring Ciprial, a fruit ingredients company with operations in France and Italy, in February.
But the acquisition of Ciprial has led the group to revise its end-year net debt target upward. Kerry, which had planned to cut its debt to capital ratio to 70 percent before buying Ciprial, is now aiming for 90 percent by year-end.
China on Tuesday suspended trading of Shandong Bohai Group Co on suspicion of violating accounting rules, the first such case since the Shanghai stock market reopened in 1990, Shanghai Securities News said.
The China Securities Regulatory Commission (CSRC), in a preliminary investigation of the firm's 1996 interim report, found entries that contravened China's accounting regulations, the paper quoted a CSRC spokesman as saying.
Chinese stock analysts said Shandong Baohai, a domestic A share company, was the first Shanghai-listed firm to be suspended from trading for violation of accounting rules in the five-year history of China's modern stock market.
They said the violations indicated that a handful of Chinese listed firms, which have performed poorly in the past few years, had resorted to irregularities to please investors.
If the trend was not checked, it would damage the image of the nation's stock market, analysts said.
The CSRC spokesman said the amounts involved in Shandong Bohai's case were large.
The commission is investigating further. Trading of the firm's shares will be suspended until the investigation is completed, he said. CSRC officials in Beijing reached by telephone declined to give details.
Shanghai brokers said the problem was linked to the firm's re-evaluation of its fixed assets in its interim report.
The report said a re-evaluation of the company's fixed assets, including a major piece of land, added 185.32 million yuan ($22.33 million) to its capital.
"This apparently violated both Chinese and international accounting regulations," said a veteran accountant with a major Chinese accouting house. "The regulations say that, if a company continues to operate, all its capital should be booked on the basis of historical value."
The report said that, based on re-valued assets, the firm planned to issue a 10-for-10 bonus issue to all shareholders.
Shandong Bohai, which mainly produces and sells material for the energy sector, performed poorly in 1995, with net profit falling by a year-on-year 38.24 percent.
Analysts said the firm had been punished in the past after it was found to have speculated in trading its own shares.
"If such irregularities are not properly checked, they will greatly damage the image of China's stock market and listed firms," said an analyst with a Chinese business consultancy.
A Shangdong Bohai spokesman declined to comment. "We will cooperate with the CSRC investigation," he said. "After it reaches a conclusion, we will make an announcement."
The last quoted price for the A share of Shandong Bohai was 13.00 yuan at the close of trading last Friday. There was no trading of the stock on Monday.
The Australian dollar and bonds both went into quick retreat amid mild disappointment that Treasurer Peter Costello's first federal budget was not as tough as the government had led the markets to believe.
By 8.35 GMT the dollar had sunk to US$0.7860/0.7865 from a pre-budget US$0.7883/88, while long dated bond yields rose some eight basis taking the November 2006 bond back up 8.0 percent.
"It wasn't a complete disappointment, but this is the first of supposedly extremely tough budgets and it doesn't quite live up to expectations," said UBS chief economist Stephen Roberts.
The U.S. Transportation Department on Tuesday gave its tentative approval for Pan American Airlines to fly again.
William Mosley, a department spokesman, said the new carrier operating under the Pan Am name was tentatively found fit to provide aviation services.
The department will make a final ruling after a 15-day comment period, Mosley said.
Miami businessman Chuck Cobb bought the Pan Am name and its familiar blue globe logo in 1993. Along with former Pan Am executive Martin Shugrue, he announced plans to restart the carrier as a small domestic airline.
The old Pan Am, an aviation pioneer, was founded in 1927. It went bankrupt in 1991 after years of losses.
Last month, the new Pan Am said it planned to start operating this summer with three aircraft on routes between Miami, New York, Chicago, Los Angeles and San Francisco.
Charles Barkley finally got the trade he wanted, and now has just one thing left to accomplish in his basketball career.
"I have no problem saying this: If we don't win the championship, I'll be crushed," the 10-time All Star said in a news conference on Monday confirming his trade from the Phoenix Suns to the Houston Rockets for forward Robert Horry, guard Sam Cassell and reserves Mark Bryant and Chucky Brown.
Barkley, 33, has won Olympic gold with two Dream Teams, took the Suns to the Finals four seasons ago and is a sure Hall of Fame inductee when his career ends. But he has never won an NBA title.
The burly power forward has a good chance to win one with the Rockets, led by the incomparable centre Hakeem Olajuwon and superstar guard Clyde Drexler.
The Rockets, who won the second of their back-to-back championships one season ago, also bolstered their quest for another title by signing 7-foot (2.13 metres) free agent Kevin Willis to back up Barkley and Olajuwon.
"We want to win championships in Houston -- the coaches do, the players do, the whole team does -- and we think this furthers our effort," Rockets owner Les Alexander said.
Barkley used his news conference to take one last shot at Phoenix, where he said he would have played out his career if the club had not sought to trade him away.
"The bottom line was, I originally wanted to finish my career in Phoenix, but I told them if they were going to shop me, I would never play there again," he said.
Barkley began his NBA career with the Philadelphia 76ers in 1984 and was traded to Phoenix in 1992. He was the league's Most Valuable Player the following season, when the Suns lost in the Finals to Michael Jordan's Chicago Bulls.
The Rockets lost two key members of their championship team by dealing away Cassell and Horry, but could not pass up a shot at acquiring Barkley, said Drexler.
"When you have a chance to get a Hall of Fame player, this is a once in a lifetime opportunity," Drexler said.
Barkley will make $4.7 million next season. Cassell, Horry, Bryant and Brown will make a combined $4.585 million, so the trade fits salary cap regulations.
All four players going to the Suns become free agents after the 1996-97 season. Acquiring potential free agents to clear cap room has become the newest way to quickly rebuild a franchise.
Since the end of the season, Barkley has been the subject of many trade rumours, the first of which had him going to Houston in a three-way deal that also involved the Denver Nuggets. But the league rejected it, alleging tampering during a period when no such dealing was allowed.
There were other trade offers for Barkley from the Dallas Mavericks, New York Knicks and Indiana Pacers.
The 6-foot-6 (1.98 metres), 252-pound (114 kg) Barkley also stage-managed his trade out of Philadelphia.
Barkley, who is one of just nine players in NBA history -- and the shortest -- with 20,000 points and 10,000 rebounds, averaged 23.2 points and 11.6 rebounds in 71 games for the Suns last season.
Satellite broadcaster BSkyB, the dominant force in British pay television, on Tuesday reported a 66 percent rise in full-year profit to 257.4 million pounds ($398.1 million).
Annual turnover climbed to more than one billion pounds as the number of subscribers in Britain and Ireland rose to 5.5 million for BSkyB, in which Rupert Murdoch's News Corp has a 40 percent stake.
Profit for the year to June 30, 1996 -- up more than 100 million pounds on the 155.3 million reported a year ago -- was towards the top end of analysts' forecasts. The full-year dividend of 5.5 pence was lower than expected, however.
BSkyB shares shed seven pence to 530p in early trading, having climbed to record highs in recent days.
"The continuing growth in subscribers, the increase in the number of channels and the renewal of the Premier League (soccer) contract until 2001 provide a firm base from which to pioneer the development of digital television in the UK," chief executive Sam Chisholm said in a statement.
"The agreement with Kirch Gruppe to develop the digital platform in Germany gives us a great opportunity to extend our business into continental Europe," he said.
BSkyB plans to launch a British digital television service next year.
Last month it signed a deal with the group headed by Bavarian media mogul Leo Kirch under which it will take a stake of up to 49 percent in DF1, Kirch's digital pay television operation.
BSkyB is expected to inject 200 million pounds into the alliance to cover start-up losses over the next three years. The deal gives BSkyB access to Europe's largest television market.
BSkyB said spending on programming rose by 28 percent to 420 million pounds after the purchase of golf, boxing and cricket events and the launch of new channels such as Disney.
The programming spend is set to rise further following a 670 million pound deal signed in June which will enable BSkyB to retain rights to broadcast live English Premier League soccer for the next five years.
One cloud on the horizon is a report that British cable companies may seek European Commission intervention over the fees BSkyB charges for its top channels.
The Financial Times said the cable companies fear they will not secure satisfactory conditions despite BSkyB undertakings to revise the structure of its wholesale rate card.
The coupon and conversion price will be decided on August 28.
Cash-strapped Nigeria Airways says it has signed an agreement with private carrier Bellview Airlines to operate some of its unutilised routes.
The national carrier said in a statement on Monday that Bellview would from November operate flights from Lagos to Bombay via Nairobi as well as the route to Brazil.
The privately-owned Bellview is based in Lagos and started business as a domestic operator but now also flies to Abidjan and Freetown along the west coast of Africa.
"The details of the agreement are being worked out," a spokesperson for the airline said.
She said the aim was to reopen unused routes belonging to Nigeria Airways under a series of bilateral air services agreements signed in the 1970s.
The national carrier has since fallen on hard times with big debts and its fleet severely depleted.
Spanish government bonds closed little changed after a stagnant session, with traders remaining on the sidelines awaiting the outcome of today's Federal Open Market Committee (FOMC) meeting in Washington.
Although the market has discounted that U.S. rates will remain steady amid mixed signals about the economy, many dealers preferred to hold their fire until the news was confirmed.
"We're waiting for the Fed, and above all the Bundesbank after (German) July M3 (money supply) came in lower than expected," said an analyst. The council of the German central bank meets on Thursday to discuss interest rates.
AMBAC Indemnity Corp said it has qualified for bond insurance the following 11 municipal issues scheduled for competitive sale today.
--Riley Elem. S.D. Corp., Ind., $11.720 million first mortgage revenue bonds.
--Columbus, Miss., $1.950 million spec. assess. bonds.
--Gulfport, Miss., $8.5 million public improvement general obligation bonds.
--Hawthorne, N.J., $5.933 million GO improvement bonds.
--Salem County, N.J., $4.555 million GOs.
--Fort Mill S.D. No. 4, S.C., $24 million GOs.
--DeSoto, Texas, $6.380 million GOs.
--Lufkin, Texas, $3.650 million GOs.
--Taylor County, Texas, $7.940 million GOs.
--Virginia Housing Development, Va., $5.645 million (tax) housing bonds and $12.890 million housing bonds.
Mexico's 28-day interbank interest rate held steady at 27.85 percent on Tuesday, the same as Monday's rate, the Mexican Stock Exchange said.
The TIIE is a market-weighted average interbank rate.
Japanese Prime Minister Ryutaro Hashimoto departed on Tuesday for a five-nation Latin American visit, saying he was "relieved" at the release of a kidnapped Japanese executive in Mexico, his first stop.
"I was truly relieved to hear the news," Hashimoto said of the release of Japanese electronics executive Mamoru Konno, in the Mexican-U.S. border city of Tijuana after a $2 million ransom was paid.
After nine days in captivity, Konno, president of a U.S. subsidiary of Japan's Sanyo Electric Co was found in the basement of an unoccupied building after a Mexican police official contacted kidnappers with the money.
Hashimoto, who expressed gratitude to Mexican authorities and confidence in their ability to deal with any future problems, stressed that he believed Japanese firms "would not pull out or scale down operations in Mexico".
Hashimoto's 10-day tour of Mexico, Chile, Brazil, Peru and Costa Rica will be the first by a Japanese prime minister for seven years to a region whose economic growth is second only to East Asia.
Tokyo has pumped nearly $60 billion into the region in the past 14 years as direct investment, and its economic aid in 1995, at $1.14 billion, was double the level of 1990.
While Japan is the second-largest trading partner after the United States with Latin America, only about four percent of Tokyo's total exports make it to the region.
Japanese officials said Hashimoto hoped to lay a basis for more investment in Latin America, greater exports and closer political ties.
Hashimoto is slated to make a rest stop in Hawaii before returning to Japan on August 30.
-- Prudential Securities initiated coverage of Patterson Energy Inc with a buy rating, a source at the brokerage said.
-- Further details were not immediately available.
Bulgaria's offer of 5.7 billion levs worth of nine-month floater coupon T-bills was 28.53 percent sold, yielding 188.70 percent, the Bulgarian National Bank (BNB) said.
The issue was offered with no minimum acceptable price set in advance and bears a coupon equal to the BNB's central interest rate (CIR) for the period to maturity. The CIR is now set at an annual 108 percent.
Settlement would be made on Wednesday at the average accepted price, the BNB said in a statement.
Ten financial institutions took part in Monday's auction. In line with its usual practice the BNB did not say which these institutions were.
Chrysler Corp said it would announce plans on Tuesday for a new manufacturing investment in South America in conjunction with Detroit Diesel Corp.
The two companies gave no details of the investment, but a Chrysler spokesman said it was being made in addition to the $100 million assembly plant project that Chrysler is currently building in Argentina.
Industry analysts said the project was expected to be in Brazil and was likely to include diesel engines for a light truck for the Latin American market.
Detroit Diesel owns VM Motori SpA, in Centro, Italy, which produces diesel engines for Chrysler minivans and Jeep Grand Cherokee minivans built in Graz, Austria.
VM Motori technology may be adapted for a Chrysler-built vehicle for Latin America, said Michael Robinet, managing director for CSM Forecasting in Farmington Hills, Mich.
Such a vehicle could use the company's Jeep Grand Cherokee platform or its front-wheel-drive Neon car platform, he said.
Chrysler said its chairman, Robert Eaton, would hold a news conference at 1100 EDT Tuesday at company headquarters, along with Detroit Diesel Chairman Roger Penske.
Federal regulators have given Kiwi International Air Lines the green light to start flying two more planes after the carrier cut back its flights in June due to problems with record-keeping, the company said Tuesday.
The Federal Aviation Administration's action means the carrier is again allowed to operate all of its 15 aircraft.
Kiwi cut about 25 percent of its flights in late June after an examination by the agency revealed problems involving pilot training records at the airline.
A New York City councilman on Tuesday said he was trying to get the Board of Education to approve a faster and less costly plan to switch schools to natural gas from coal to cut pollution and save money.
Saying that the Board of Education had been studying the issue for 10 years, Israel Ruiz said the City Council, Mayor Rudolph Giuliani and Gov. George Pataki supported the plan to have Consolidated Edison Co convert about 120 schools.
He explained that the rest of the program's costs would be met by a fee of $1 per therm that the schools would pay into a fund. One therm is equivalent to 100,000 British Thermal Units.
Ruiz said that it would cost about $750,000 to convert each of the 120 schools, about $215,000 less than under a different plan the city now is exploring.
He added that Brooklyn Union Gas has contacted him to see if it also would be interested in converting the schools in the area it serves under similar terms.
Using Con Edison to switch just over one-third of the city's 304 coal-burning schools would ensure they are converted more swiftly than having the Board of Education do another study and ask potential suppliers for their proposals, as the agency has proposed.
"We have to make sure that they udnerstand that the mayor, city council and governor want to get this done," Ruiz added.
New York City now burns about 300 tons of coal at each of the schools that still use this heating method.
Phoenix airport officials said they foresee an air cargo boom from new non-stop European services from Britain and Germany.
Phoenix Airport marketing director Ann Hastings said cargo has risen 39 percent so far this year and she expected still higher annual growth.
Cargo volumes at Phoenix, the 17th busiest passenger airport in the world, grew 11.3 percent to 286,666 US tons in 1995.
Hastings told Reuters in a telephone interview while on a Germany sales tour: "As we work in Europe to gain more carriers, cargo will grow."
British Airways now flies daily from Gatwick and LTU will start a weekly Duesseldorf to Phoenix in November.
"Cargo has been a small area of our business because freight was trucked to Los Angeles to the freighters for Europe and Asia," Hastings said.
"We know from business clients they want to ship more from Arizona because they would save money and time," she added.
"British Airways has been surprised at the amount of cargo they can get for Phoenix. They have more committed than they can handle."
Volatility trades were the main deals struck in the FTSE 100 index by Tuesday afternoon as the market went higher, dealer said.
The biggest trade was from a buyer of 1,250 September 3850 calls at 75-1/2p who also sold September futures at 3895.
If the market falls, profits from the short futures will be offset by losses from the long calls and vice versa if the market rises. An increase in implied volatility will make the trade profitable.
By 1357 GMT, September FTSE futures were up 12 at 3891, while the cash index gained 18.0 to 3881.7.
Over in stock options, mobile 'phone company Vodafone was active, the biggest deal coming from a seller of 750 November 260 calls at 8p.
The underlying shares were unchanged at 244-1/2p.
Elsewhere, a short strangle was the main deal in airports authority BAA and it involved selling 500 October 460 puts at 3p as well as 500 October 500 calls at 9p.
Also active was confectionery and soft drinks group Cadbury Scheweppes, where the chief deal was the sale of 500 November 500 calls at 28p.
And in British Telecommunications a short position was rolled forward. This involved buying back 400 August 360 calls at 13p in a closing deal and opening a new position by selling 400 November 360 calls at 24p.
BT shares were unchanged at 373-1/2p as were those of Cadbury Scheweppes.
Blue-chip stocks bounded higher Tuesday as the Federal Reserve's decision to keep interest rates unchanged removed a possible roadblock to the market's continued rally.
Based on early and unofficial data, the Dow Jones industrial average closed up 21.82 points at 5,721.26.
In the broader market, advancing issues led declines 12-10 on moderate volume of 336 million shares on the New York Stock Exchange.
FCOJ futures consolidated after three consecutive days of gains to settle weaker on local and trade selling, floor sources said.
They noted light speculative buying at the lows.
The benchmark September contract closed above Friday's high of 120.00 cents a lb, however, leading market sources to label the activity a minor correction, and to forecast higher near-term prices.
Analysts pegged the next level of resistance between 124.00 and 125.00 basis the September contract.
September finished at 120.75, off 1.25, having ranged from 122.10 to 119.90. November closed 1.05 weaker at 115.10, while the remaining months settled 0.85 higher to 0.05 lower.
Volume was estimated at 4,000 lots.
A hunger strike by African immigrants fighting expulsion orders divided France's ruling coalition on Tuesday, with some senior politicians calling on the government to compromise.
Gilles de Robien of the centre-right UDF, junior coalition partner, met representatives of the 300 protesters, 10 of whom have been fasting for 47 days, and suggested negotiations with the government and deputies of all parties.
"These people want a dialogue which has been interrupted. They want a moratorium (on the expulsion orders) while talks take place," de Robien, UDF floor leader at the National Assembly, told a news conference.
"I'm going to pass on messages to the government. It's up to the government to listen or not," he added, insisting that his initiative was a personal one and not a mediation attempt.
The protesters, who include more than 100 children, are holed up in a Paris church surrounded by hundreds of sympathisers bent on preventing police from seizing them.
Abubakar Diop, the immigrants' spokesman, said he hoped a solution would soon be found but gave no indication when the fast might end. "Each side wants to come out of this with dignity. We have to start talking again," he said.
There was little sign the government, with an eye on voters of the far-right and anti-immigrant National Front, would be mollified by the increasingly political turn to the protest.
De Robien's party was itself divided, with Urban Affairs Minister Jean-Claude Gaudin urging firmness.
Interior Minister Jean-Louis Debre has repeatedly rejected any compromise and only offered to discuss repatriation terms. The daily Le Parisien said this could be an offer of money.
Left-wing party leaders, trade unions and human rights groups kept up the pressure with a petition urging President Jacques Chirac, who is on holiday on the Riviera, to intervene and launch talks to avert "the risk of a human tragedy".
Signatories included Socialist Lionel Jospin, Communist Robert Hue, Louis Viannet, head of the pro-Communist CGT union, and Fode Sylla of the SOS Racism association.
At the Saint-Bernard church in the heavily-immigrant Goutte d'Or neighbourhood, hundreds of supporters formed a human barricade around the clock to prevent a possible police raid.
"The government is in a terrible bind. The protesters have too much support for the police to intervene," said Dominique Noguere, lawyer for the Human Rights League and some immigrants.
The protest by mostly Malian immigrants, including 110 children, has made newspaper headlines but does not appear to have rallied widespread support. A demonstration in the port of Marseille gathered only about 50 people on Monday. Another march was planned in Paris on Wednesday.
Diop said the fasters were extremely weak. "At one point we asked them to stop their hunger strike because a little piece of paper is not worth dying for. But they have refused," he said.
Lawyers say the immigrants' status is a legal tangle ranging from some people who are entitled to stay, to others who can be expelled outright, and others whose situation has become unclear following controversial 1993 laws to curb immigration.
House Majority Whip Tom DeLay Monday predicted a Republican sweep in November's election and an expansion of the "Republican Revolution" that resulted in the party's 1994 takeover of Congress.
"Worst case scenario, we'll pick up 10 seats and probably pick up 20 seats," DeLay told an afternoon news conference. "If Bob Dole is elected president, with a nice margin, we could pick up 30 seats from the West and from the South."
The Texas congressman, in Anchorage to campaign for Rep. Don Young, chairman of the House Resources Committee, cited previous Republican come-from-behind victories.
"I remind people that in 1992 we were behind 14 points and we gained 10 seats. In 1994 we were behind 10 points and we took the House of Representatives and the Senate. Now we're at dead even, so we're in great shape," he said.
He also promised a second version of the Republicans' 1994 "Contract With America."
"We're going to come back to the American people and remind them that Contract Number Two will include those things that this president vetoed in Number One, and hopefully they get a president who will sign them," he said.
Delay, who once in a floor speech referred to the Environmental Protection Agency as the "Gestapo," defended the Republicans' environmental record against recent attacks. "The environmentalists issue is the most indicative issue of how commercials are being bought lying about what we did," he said.
The majority whip said Republican presidential nominee Bob Dole was committed to opening the Arctic National Wildlife Refuge (ANWR) to oil drilling, a project cherished by Alaska's all-Republican congressional delegation.
Young, Alaska's at-large House member, condemned President Clinton for blocking oil development in the wildlife refuge.
"This president, with Al Gore, is not ever going to open ANWR, and that's why we have to get rid of them," Young said.
The oil industry has said the wildlife refuge could contain an oil bonanza, but environmentalists have said the area was too fragile for industrial development.
Australian Treasurer Peter Costello said on Wednesday the defection of a Labor politician boosted the chances of getting the government's 1996/97 budget through parliament.
"I think that this has improved our chances," Costello told radio 5DN.
A Labor member of the upper house Senate, Mal Colston, quit the party on Monday, saying he would serve out his term as an independent.
Central government spending in Colombia increased 46.8 percent in nominal terms during the first half of the year, a government report said.
The report, issued by the presidential press office, quoted central bank figures as saying the central government's revenues rose 52.6 percent during the same six-month period, however, leaving a positive balance overall.
The central government's fiscal deficit stood at two percent of gross domestic product as of June 30. However, excluding debt service, the deficit was 1.02 percent of GDP, the report said.
"These results are consistent with the government's target of reaching a consolidated fiscal deficit equal to 0.6 percent of GDP in 1996," the report said.
It did not specify what segment of the public sector was expected to post a large enough surplus to bring the overall fiscal deficit down to 0.6 percent.
WCI Steel Inc said on Tuesday it had increasd base prices for hot-rolled, cold-rolled and coated sheet steels by $15 a ton, effective with orders scheduled for shipment September 29.
The average accepted yield of 91-day Exchange Fund bills at Tuesday's weekly tender was 5.14 percent, the Hong Kong Monetary Authority (HKMA) said.
This compares with three-month HIBOR of 5.55625 percent at 0300 GMT and the average accepted yield of 5.15 percent at the previous tender on August 13.
Bids for the HK$1.50 billion issue were HK$4.67 billion vs HK$6.54 billion.
Colombian stocks ended mixed in dull trading, with most attention focused on the auction of controlling interest in bankrupt cement manufacturer Industrias e Inversiones Samper after the session's close.
Medellin's IBOMED general price index dropped 0.23 percent to end at 13,255.65 on a much lower-than-average volume of 460.2 million pesos. Bogota's IBB rose a miniscule 0.08 percent, meanwhile, closing at 843.08 on a healthier volume of 2.5 billion pesos.
A 40 percent stake in the bank will be sold to Spain's Banco Bilbao Vizcaya next week, and brokers said its common shares rose 0.53 percent in Tuesday's trade to close at 284 pesos per share. Ganadero's preferential shares also closed higher, ending up 0.45 percent at 223 pesos.
Construcel, a thinly-traded engineering firm, was the day's biggest winner. Brokers said it closed up 9.6 percent at 250 pesos per share on a huge cross-trade involving 2.3 million pesos of shares.
Brewer Bavaria SA also extended its recent losses in Medellin, ending down 1.38 percent at 3,550 pesos per share.
Brokerage Corredores Asociados SA snapped up all 275 million shares in Industrias e Inversiones Samper at auction late Tuesday.
The deal was the focus of attention on the Bogota exchange all day, but it was not immediately clear who the buyer was.
Traders and company spokesmen would only say that the anonymous buyer, widely belived to be Mexico's Cemex, paid $1.08 per share.
*Australian bonds eased back from the day's highs, but sentiment remained positive ahead of the Federal budget, due to be handed down by Treasurer Costello at 7.30 p.m. (0930 GMT).
Australian bonds eased back from the day's highs amid some profit-taking after a steep rally had taken yields to the lowest level since March 1994, but sentiment remained extemely positive ahead of the Federal budget.
Treasurer Peter Costello is due to hand down the budget to parliament at 7.30 p.m. (0930 GMT), and hopes remain high for a market-friendly statement. June quarter GDP data will be released simultaneously with the budget.
The market raced ahead in early trading, extending Monday's 16 basis point rally, and took the Sepetmber 10-year bond futures contract to 92.135, or just below 7.90 percent on the November 2006 physical bond.
"I must admit I was surprised at this market's strength, and having gone so far, so fast I suspect we start to run into some pressure once we get into high-teens to 92.20 area (on the 10-year bond contract) after the budget," one trader said.
The Treasurer and Prime Minister John Howard both reiterated that the budget would pave the way for more interest rate cuts.
This kept a bid tone running in bill futures for much of the day, and took the active December contract to a high of 93.44 at one stage, indicating a cash rate of 6.56 percent at maturity compared with current 7.0 percent official interest rates.
U.S. millfeeds traded at steady to higher prices at several locations and many dealers reported gradually increasing buyer interest, particularly for October to December positions.
New-crop corn from the Southeast and from south Texas has not yet pressured millfeed values, because millfeed supplies remain tight, dealers said. Many flour mills were holding firm on offers because much of their production has been sold.
"The calendar is telling people to start buying the O-N-D," said one dealer, referring to the October-December delivery period.
Flour mills, however, have much of their millfeed production sold for that time frame and are holding firm on offers, dealers said.
Walt Disney Co on Tuesday launched 50 billion yen worth of 5.80 percent three-year yen/Australian dollar dual currency samurai bonds due September 9, 1999, lead manager Nikko Securities said.
The bonds will be priced at par.
The coupon of the samurai bonds will be paid in yen, while redemption will be in Australian dollars.
Holders of the samurai bonds will receive A$11,759.59 for each one million yen bond held at maturity.
NOTE - Full name of Danish airline holding company is SAS Danmark A/S. The company, half-owned by the Danish state, represents Denmark's two-sevenths stake in Scandinavian Airlines System.
Annual wage increases in Canadian collective bargaining agreements reached in June averaged 0.5 percent, down from 0.8 percent in May, the Department of Human Resources Development said on Tuesday.
Annual wage increases in collective bargaining agreements reached in the first half of 1996 averaged 0.6 percent, down from 0.9 percent in the first half of 1995.
A Reuters survey of economists had forecast a 0.9 percent increase in wage settlements in June.
Wage increases are the average annual percentage increase in base rates -- the wage rate of the lowest paid classification in a bargaining unit -- over the term of the agreement in settlements negotiated during the period shown.
NOTE - Fujita Kanko Inc is a major operator of hotels and restaurants.
DUE: 6/15/97-98					     SR MGR: Canandaigua Ntl Bk.
Year		     Amount    Coupon     Yield     Price  Conc.
The Federal Statistical Office reported the following economic indicator details.
NOTES -- Data do not include private sector. Data cover rump Federal Republic of Yugoslavia, comprising Serbia and Montenegro.
Ansonia Copper and Brass Inc said it revised metal values for all brass mill products except free-cutting brass rod to reflect copper at 108.00 cents a lb, a two-cent decrease, effective with August 21 shipments.
CompDent Corp said on Tuesday it adopted a rights plan designed to protect shareholders from abusive takeover tactics and from attempts to acquire control of the company at an inadequate price.
CompDent said the action was not taken in response to any specific effort to gain control of the company.
Under the plan, a dividend distribution of one right will be made for each outstanding share of common stock as of the close of business on September 4, 1996.
Each right entitles the holder to purchase shares of preferred stock equivalent to CompDent common stock with a value of twice the then-current exercise price of the right.
Initially, the rights are not exercisable and will trade automatically with the common stock.
The plan does not preclude the board from considering an offer to acquire all or part of the company if it believes the offer to be in the best interests of the shareholders, the company said.
CompDent is a provider of full-service dental-care plans.
The stock fell 1/2 to 38-1/2 in Nasdaq trading on Tuesday.
Brisk trading in second liners drove Singapore shares to close up on Tuesday. Sentiment was partly lifted by strong July trade figures.
Dealers said the focus was on shares hit by takeover manoeuvres or rumours. However, blue chip stocks were subdued with cautious bargain hunting in property and selective stocks.
The 30-share Straits Times Industrials Index was up 18.15 points at 2,123.81. The UOB SESDAQ index tracking second liners was firmer at 85.14, rising 3.91 percent or 3.20 points.
Transmarco shares were suspended at mid afternoon. Its last traded price was S$9.80, up S$0.95 on a turnover of 2.65 million shares. A joint bank statement said on Tuesday Putera Sampoerna's Miel Investment Corp had agreed to buy one million Transmarco shares at Singapore $8.55 each, up from last weekend's takeover offer of S$6.50 for each share.
Causeway Investment jumped to lead actives with a hefty 12.54 million shares amid takeover and other rumours. It rose S$0.09 to S$1.55. Electronic firm Fu Yu also traded heavily with 10.58 million shares, gaining 11 cents to S$0.64.
-Seah Beng Nah 65 8703080.
Canandaigua National Bank said it won $1.180 million of Canandaigua City Sch Dist, N.Y., general obligation school district bonds, with a net interest cost of 4.386 percent.
European bourses kept their morning gains on Tuesday afternoon but fell into step with Wall Street, trading cautiously until the U.S. central bank's Federal Open Market Committee announces a decision on interest rates.
London shares had climbed to another record high earlier on Tuesday, led by renewed strength in retailing and oil stocks and following reassuring money supply data from both Britain and Germany.
The blue-chip FTSE 100 index peaked at 3,883.4, 5-1/2 points up on its previous record set on Monday, after British M4, the broad measure of money supply, showed money growth remained subdued through July.
Analysts said the money supply figures could give further ammunition to Chancellor of the Exchequer Kenneth Clarke if he wants to trim the 5.75 percent base interest rate again in coming months.
"It is a good figure...most people hadn't expected the figure to come back into the monitoring range, which is about the first time for six or seven months," said economist Keith Wade of Schroders.
In Germany, growth in M3, the German central bank's main policy guide, slowed to an annualised 8.6 percent in July from 9.6 percent in June, virtually guaranteeing a cut in rates at Thursday's meeting of the Bundesbank council, analysts said.
The positive data failed to inspire the German stock market, which traded mixed, but economists welcomed the figure.
"It is now very clear that we have a very good chance to reach the Bundesbank target zone (of four to seven percent growth for 1996). I think there is a very good chance that we will see a cut in the repo rate," said Uwe Angenendt, economist at BHF-Bank in Frankfurt.
The Paris bourse gained more than 30 points, quickly pushing the CAC-40 share index through the 2,000 barrier for the first time since August 8, on strengthened hopes of a new round of rate cuts.
The dollar held its gains after a lift from a narrowing U.S. June trade gap. The deficit was $8.11 billion against May's revised $10.55 billion shortfall.
But currency markets were still nervous ahead of news from the key U.S. and German central bank meetings -- on Tuesday and Thursday, respectively.
"OK, so the Fed probably won't move and the Bundesbank probably will, particularly after that good M3 number. But in this market you will get killed if you're wrong and have a big position," said one trader. "I'm not taking the risk."
Dollar/mark was trading at 1.4904 and dollar/yen at 108.32 versus Monday's late 1.4875 and 107.90. Mark/French franc was trading at 3.4159 against 3.4232.
The Financial Times-Stock Exchange index of 100 leading British shares was up 16.5 points at 3,88.33. Frankfurt's 30-share DAX index was down 2.5 at 2,563.20. Paris's CAC-40 was up 31.26 at 2,017.47.
Gold fixed unchanged from the morning at $387.10 an ounce.
Silver was steady at $5.20, up eight cents, and platinum was $1.10 higher at $399.50.
Argentina's Central Bank said on Tuesday that it plans to set up a contingency fund against possible banking liquidity crises of about $3.0 billion.
Eleven other banks have also made offers.
"The banks have pledged that in the case of a liquidity crisis within the next two to five years...they automatically will disburse a credit line against government bonds upon request by the Central Bank," the official said.
Central Bank chief Pedro Pou said the bank would now study the offers before making a final decision, hinting the full amount could be even larger. He declined to provide an estimated day for the system to go into effect.
"The implementation of this program does not mean we're expecting any imminent crisis," he said. "This is just a reassurance in case a crisis erupts."
Argentina lost some $8.0 billion in banks deposits after Mexico's "Tequila effect" jolted all major emerging markets.
NOTE - Fujita Kanko Inc is a major operator of hotels and restaurants.
Another liability challenge to the tobacco industry headed toward a decision in court Tuesday, this one from the family of a man who began smoking at age six and died of lung cancer 46 years later.
A jury in Marion County Superior Court was expected to begin deliberations in the case on Wednesday or Thursday.
The widow and three teenaged children of Richard Rogers, an Indianapolis lawyer who died at the age of 52 in 1987, are seeking unspecified damages.
The lawsuit was moving toward a close as Kansas became the 11th state and Arizona the 12th to sue the tobacco industry to recover Medicaid costs of smokers.
Kansas Attorney General Carla Stovall and Arizona Attorney General Grant Woods held separate news conferences to discuss their states' litigation.
Also Tuesday, New York City's public advocate urged Mayor Rudolph Giuliani to sue the tobacco industry to recoup health care costs of smokers. Public Advocate Mark Green, in a letter to the mayor, said the city should join the group of states and the city of San Francisco in their efforts to obtain Medicaid funds from cigarette companies.
The Rogers case, similar to hundreds that have been filed across the country, comes on the heels of a one earlier this month in Jacksonville, Florida, where a jury awarded $750,000 to a man who smoked for 44 years before he was stricken with lung cancer.
In that case the jury said the Lucky Strikes he smoked were a defective product and that cigarette maker Brown & Williamson Tobacco Corp. was negligent by failing to inform the public about the health risks of smoking.
Brown & Williamson Tobacco Corp. is a unit of Britain's B.A.T Industries Plc.
In the Indianapolis case, which was tried once before and wound up in a hung jury, the Rogers family contended that the industry peddled an addictive product that was the cause of his lung cancer.
Rogers originally filed the suit himself. He quit smoking about a year before his death after he was diagnosed with cancer.
The suit is against R.J. Reynolds Tobacco Co., Liggett Group Inc., Philip Morris Inc. and The American Tobacco Co., now owned by Brown & Williamson.
RJR Nabisco Holdings Corp. is the parent company of R.J. Reynolds Tobacco Co. Liggett is a subsidiary of Brooke Group Ltd. Philip Morris Inc. is a subsidiary of Philip Morris Cos. Inc.
Lawyers for Rogers' family said during the trial that he knew he was addicted and tried often to quit, but that the industry, by selling an addictive product, took that choice away from him.
Lawyers for the industry countered that Rogers was exposed to warning labels on cigarette packs for at least 20 years and should have been fully aware of the risks stated on them.
NOTE - Kyoritsu Air Tech Inc is a medium-scale air compression equipment maker.
Aug 20.....................DAILY INDICATORS..................
NOTE - Norita Kogaku KK is a specialist maker of lenses.
Malayan Banking Bhd (Maybank) said on Tuesday it expects loan growth for the banking sector to remain at 25-30 percent in the next six months.
He told a press conference to review Maybank's full-year financial results that Malaysia's tight monetary policy was also expected to continue.
"The tight monetary policy has been around for the last two years. I think it should remain that way because there is still pressure of inflation," Amirsham said.
On future direction of local interest rates, he said it would depend on Bank Negara Malaysia.
"There's still a lot of liquidity (in the market). But it is difficult for me to make a prediction of interest rates," he said.
FSA said it qualified for municipal bond insurance a $6.9 million San Clemente, Calif., street overlay bond issue slated for competitive sale on Tuesday.
A group led by David E. Shaw and Co Inc said Tuesday it raised its stake in Reynolds Metals Co to 683,500 shares of seven percent PRIDES, Convertible Preferred Stock or 6.2 percent from 5.2 percent.
In a filing with the Securities and Exchange Commission, the group said it bought 111,700 additional PRIDE shares from July 30 to August 13 at prices ranging from $45.0625 to $46.205 per share.
The group said it acquired the shares for investment purposes.
Sijoitus Forestia Ab.
Balabac Oil Exploration & Drilling Corp said on Tuesday its shareholders approved a plan to convert the firm into a holding company.
The new company name would be Balabac Resources & Holdings Corp, the statement said.
The oil exploration activity would be relegated into one of its secondary purposes which would include real estate development. All oil-related assets would be transferred to another entity, the company said.
The par value of the company's shares would also be changed to one peso each from the present one centavo apiece.
-- Bear Stearns started coverage of Comstock Resources Inc and Cross Timbers Oil Co as buy, a Bear Stearns source said.
-- The analyst was not available for comment.
-- Bear Stearns also started Parker & Parsley Petroleum Co as attractive, the source said.
The Czech government will counter grain price increases demanded by the country's farmers by use of various measures, including possible imports, a cabinet aide said on Tuesda.
Prime Minister Vaclav Klaus's chief adviser, Jiri Weigl, told reporters after a meeting of ministers that this year's harvest would be sufficient to cover domestic demand and therefore there was no reason for price hikes.
"The state is ready to play an active role and take measures against price increases and the pressure of producers," he added.
Czech grain prices have been several hundred crowns below the world market price per tonne, but Weigl said the governemnt would, in the short term, resist pressure from farmers by using the state fund for regulating food prices.
"Measures vary from influencing the supply from sources of the state reserves... to possible imports," Waigl said.
Grain exports are subject to licensing by state authorities, and Weigl said licences would be granted only if the domestic demand was satisfied.
"(Liberalisation of the market) would mean that the market would aim towards...world prices, which would have serious impact on the development of inflation," Weigl told reporters.
Farmers have demanded price hikes saying their costs have grown.
Speaking about long-term grain market strategy, Weigl said that "most of the ministers" objected to the European Union (EU) system of guaranteed grain prices.
The Czechs have applied to join the EU, but Prime Minister Vaclav Klaus, has often criticised the Union's Common Agriculture Policy (CAP).
Mexican stocks closed with record gains on Tuesday as dwindling interest rates fueled a long winning streak that began at mid-month when major U.S. brokerage houses upped their ratings of Mexico, dealers said.
The IPC index of blue-chip stocks rose 77.12 points or 2.32 percent to 3,401.79 points, an all-time record.The closing figure also surpasses any previous intraday record.
"I just think investors are starting to rerate Mexico, which is over the worst of the crisis, certainly," one analyst said. "But I'm a little concerned that this is running way ahead of itself, really."
Others said Mexico is at a breakthrough moment in the eyes of foreign investors.
Same-day Cetes rates closed at 23.90 percent on the secondary money market, the lowest close since January 25, 1995.
All the markets were expecting primary Cetes rates to fall sharply in today's primary auction. Rates on the benchmark 28-day paper are seen falling by 158 basis points to 25.05 percent, according to a Reuters survey of nine Cetes dealers.
But despite a flock of foreign investors rushing in to buy pesos, the Mexican currency posted only slight gains because local banks began to square positions out of concern that yields from the Cetes auction might be too low.
Meanwhile, volume on the bolsa was frenzied with 159.89 million shares traded. Of 121 stocks, 77 gained and 24 lost ground.
Telmex L shares, accounting for nearly 30 percent of the value of the bolsa index, were up 3.85 percent or 46 centavos to 12.42 pesos. Meanwhile, Telmex ADRs climbed 1-1/4 to 33-3/8.
World crude steel production fell 1.1 percent to 60 million tonnes in July compared with the same month last year, the International Iron and Steel Institute (IISI) said on Tuesday.
In the January-July period steel output in the 66 countries which report to the IISI fell by 1.9 percent to 423.4 million tonnes.
However, it signalled better times ahead in western Europe, saying major steel producers in the region were finally seeing the end of a long period of overstocking.
"Western Europe's stock levels are finally being normalised, but summer shutdowns reflect negatively on the region's results," IISI said in a statement.
July production in western Europe declined by 6.8 percent to 12.5 million tonnes compared with the same 1995 month but IISI said big producers expected "that production results should show more positive signs in the near future."
Production reports indicated continued growth in the United States and further growth also marked the month in South America, most of Asia and the Middle East, IISI said.
But July output fell 12 percent to 2.6 million tonnes in eastern Europe compared with last year. In the former Soviet Union, production declined by two percent to 6.5 million tonnes.
"However, the production decline in Russia in July was considerably less dramatic than in earlier months at 4.1 million tonnes, it was down by only 1.3 percent from July 1995 production," IISI said.
In North America, output rose four percent to 10.2 million tonnes, "confirming the region's growth trend," IISI said.
In the United States, output jumped five percent year-on-year to 7.9 million tonnes. "Best U.S. steel industry customers in July were the automotive and construction sectors," it said.
Output in Africa fell by three percent to 1.1 million tonnes while it soared 14.4 percent to 705,000 tonnes in the Middle East and rose by 1.2 percent in Asia to 22.4 million tonnes. Continued growth was registered in China, up 7.2 percent to 8.2 million tonnes compared with the same month last year.
U.S. spot gasoline and heating oil prices were stable in ACCESS trade late Tuesday after release of weekly API inventory data deemed slightly bearish by traders.
In earlier NYMEX trade, heat futures fell 0.91 cent and gasoline futures slid 1.26 cents in a reversal of two days of sharply higher prices, traders said.
The API data, for the week ended August 16, showed a seasonal 1.83-million-barrel increase in distillate inventories on the heels of several weeks of drawdowns and scanty builds.
Total distillate stocks stand at 106 million barrels, almost 18 million lower than the comparable period last year, the report said.
It showed a seasonal gasoline draw of 864,000 barrels, putting stocks 1.4 million below last year's levels. But the data showed a bearish 2.2 million build in reformulated gasoline stocks in New York Harbor.
"I'd call the numbers a little on the bearish side," one Gulf Coast trader said. "Gasoline is only a million or so barrels less than last year, so it's slowly building back to normal."
The Palestinian Authority faces financial collapse if an Israeli blockade on self-ruled areas is not lifted and if international donors fail to disburse economic aid, foreign diplomats said on Tuesday.
"Within weeks the Palestinian Authority may face a liquidity crisis and financial collapse," said Terje Larsen, U.N. special envoy to the West Bank and Gaza Strip.
"The budget deficit is estimated to reach $127 million dollars and around $64 million still needs financing," Larsen told reporters at a news conference on the Palestinian economy.
"Failure to address the economic and political problems will lead to political instability that will not be in the interest of the Palestinian Authority, Israel or the international community," he said.
International Monetary Fund representative in the West Bank and Gaza Salam Fayyad said only $985 million - or 40 percent - of the $2.4 billion pledged by donors in 1993 had been given.
Fayyad said donor failure to meet pledges forced the Palestinian Authority to expand the public sector beyond its absorption capacity and to borrow.
"The Authority hasn't received any financing for the current side of the budget since June 18, 1996, and in the absence of resources, the liquidity position of the Palestinian Authority will be threatened," he said.
Mohammad Shtayeh, head of the Palestinian Economic Development and Reconstruction Council said repeated Israeli closures of the West Bank and Gaza had created the worst economic conditions since Israel occupied the areas in 1967.
"Palestinians' total loss due to the closure is $600 million since January 1996," Shtayeh said.
Palestinian territories have been subjected to repeated closures since 1993. Israel clamped a full blockade on the West Bank and Gaza after a wave of suicide bombings by Moslem militants killed 59 in the Jewish state last February and March.
Shtayeh said the inability of workers to reach jobs in Israel had led to the highest unemployment rates since 1967 -- 51 percent in Gaza and 40 percent in the West Bank in 1996.
Shtayeh said the blockade has caused sharp declines in Palestinian per capita incomes -- from $1800 to $800 in the West Bank and from $1200 to $700 in Gaza in 1996.
He said that 166,000 Palestinian workers had been prevented from reaching jobs in Israel.
Israel has recently eased the closure, allowing 45,000 workers to return to their jobs in the Jewish state, an Israeli official said.
The siege has also caused West Bank and Gazan exports, estimated at $500 million in January, to fall by 50 percent.
The negative effects of the closure, compounded by donor failure to meet their pledges, forced the Palestinian Authority to borrow $90 million from the World Bank, Shtayeh said.
FOB Gulf corn and wheat positions were steady while soybean values firmed.
Soybeans firmed by three cents per bushel in the September and October position and were in line with higher CIF values, one dealer said.
Dealers quoted the following afternoon FOB U.S. Gulf values, basis Chicago futures, except hard red winter wheat basis Kansas City. (In cents per bushel).
Prices on the American Stock Exchange closed higher Tuesday in heavy trading.
The Amex index closed at 559.29, up 1.69.
Gainers beat losers 291 to 217.
The average price per share rose $0.04.
Preliminary volume was 22,814,210, compared with 16,413,225 Monday.
NetVantage Inc Tuesday said it reached an agreement with Silicon Valley Bank to increase its line of credit for working capital purposes and capital equipment to $6 million from $3 million.
According to NetVantage Vice President and Chief Financial Officer Thomas Baker, the increase in the existing line of credit will be used to support the increasing working capital needs of the company resulting from the increasing demand for its Ethernet switching products.
More than 600 people are missing after a series of storms which struck northern Vietnam last week, and city authorities in Hanoi said on Tuesday they were placing the capital on maxmimum flood alert.
Voice of Vietnam radio said 34 people had been killed and 22 were missing following torrential rain in remote mountain provinces of northwest Vietnam over the weekend.
Efforts were continuing meanwhile in coastal provinces to the southeast of Hanoi to try to account for hundreds not seen since a whirlwind storm struck the area a few days earlier.
In an interview with the Tuoi Tre newspaper on Tuesday Agriculture Minister Nguyen Cong Tan said 635 people were missing and warned the true death toll was unlikely to be known for some time.
He said most of the missing had been aboard fishing boats caught at sea as the storm swept the coast.
Newspapers on Tuesday described the flooding as the worst to strike northern Vietnam in years.
The Saigon Times daily said water was being released from the massive Hoa Binh reservoir to the west of Hanoi in order to reduce flooding further upstream.
The newspaper quoted agriculture ministry officials as urging the evacuation of people living along nearby rivers.
City authorities in Hanoi placed the capital ity of 2.2 million people on maximum flood alert as water levels continued rising on the Red River.
They warned that tropical storm Niki was approaching Vietnam across the South China Sea and could bring further flooding later this week.
The Robinson-Humphrey Company Inc said it priced $25 million of North Carolina Medical Care Commission hospital revenue bonds, Series 1996, for Grace Hospital Inc.
The top yield is 5.70 percent in 2019.
Portions of the offerings are AMBAC insured.
The bonds are rated single-A by Moody's Investors Service (Aaa on the insured portions) and A-plus by Standard & Poor's Corp (AAA on the insured portions).
The bonds are dated 8/15/1996 and the first coupon is 10/1/1996. The bonds are due 10/1.
An authorization to buy $10 million worth of U.S. rice under PL480 was issued to Cote D'Ivoire, the U.S. Agriculture Department said Tuesday.
USDA said the authorization provides for the purchase of about 22,000 tonnes of long, medium or short-grain milled rice or brown rice for processing.
The contracting period is August 26 through September 30 and the delivery period is August 26 through December 31.
COMMISSION REGULATION (EC) No 1654/96 of 19 August 1996 on the supply of vegetable oil as food aid END OF DOCUMENT.
*********** Aug 20........DAILY INDICATORS............
-------------------------------------------------------------- .
Kolon International Corp said on Tuesday it plans to offer a 37-for-100 rights issue in November at a 25 percent discount to the base issue price, which will be set later.
Kolon will issue five million new common shares, raising its share capital to 16,086,410 shares. It said 20 percent of new shares would be allocated to its own employees and the remaining 80 percent to company shareholders.
Subscription is scheduled for November 14 and 15, with payment due on November 26.
Kolon's shareholders as of the close of October 16 will be eligible to subscribe for the rights, the statement said.
Rogers Communications Inc said on Tuesday it inked a deal with with MDC Communications Corp under which MDC will buy Rogers' wholly held cheque printing unit Davis + Henderson.
Davis + Henderson is expected to generate revenues in excess of C$80 million in fiscal 1996, MDC said in a separate statement. The unit employs more than 750 people at seven plants in Canada and one in the United States.
The company's U.S. unit, the Check Gallery Inc, operates in the direct-to-consumer cheque business in the United States serving 900,000 customers.
MDC said the revenue from this business is growing at a rate of 50 percent per year. MDC will fund the purchase by bank facilities.
Financial terms of the acquisition were not disclosed.
Marcus Theatres Corp said Tuesday it plans to expand its theatre operations beyond Wisconsin and Illinois and renovate existing theatres.
Marcus Theatres said it is actively exploring new 24-screen sites in Kansas City, Detroit and St. Louis.
Marcus Theatres, a subsidiary of Marcus Corp, currently operates 266 screens and is the 20th largest theatre operator in the United States.
Marcus Theatres plans to renovate some existing theatres, replacing older seating with stadium seating. A total of 42 out of 80 screens at six Milwaukee-area locations will feature stadium seating.
Since the beginning of the company's fiscal year on May 31, 1996, 47 new movie screens have been added to bring the current screen count to 266.
More than 40 additional screens will be in operation by the end of May 1997, the company said in a statement.
Marcus Corp operates and franchises 129 Budgetel Inns in 28 states and three Woodfield Suites in Wisconsin and Colorado; three hotels in Wisconsin and one in Minnesota; the Grand Geneva Resort & Spa in Lake Geneva, Wis.; and 31 KFC restaurants in Wisconsin.
Swiss leaders on Tuesday rejected calls to hold the country's frequent national referendums on the Internet, saying computer networks were vulnerable to sabotage.
The Federal Council, or cabinet, dismissed a parliamentary request for a study of ways for Swiss voters to cast their ballots electronically over the world-wide computer network.
Internet voting would be too vulnerable to manipulation by computer hackers, since the Internet is accessible from almost any computer, the cabinet said.
"This danger is much greater in a computer network, and especially in the Internet, than under current voting methods," it said, referring to the ballot papers and boxes now in use.
Internet voting would also require enormous investment in technology to make it available to all, the cabinet added.
Six members of parliament had urged the government to look into Internet balloting as a way of luring non-voting Swiss, especially younger people, back into the democratic process.
Voter turnout has fallen gradually for years at the same time as the number of referendums has mushroomed under Switzerland's system of direct democracy.
Swiss citizens are able to vote directly on many major policy issues rather than delegating them to elected representatives, as happens in most other democracies.
A given year might see five to 10 national referendums and even more local ones.
Nasdaq stocks closed lower on continued profit-taking in high technology issues and some analysts say the correction is drawing to a close.
The Nasdaq Composite Index was down 6.24 points, or 0.55 percent at 1124.67. Declines led advances 2053 to 1923 on volume of about 413 million shares.
"The profit-taking seems to be focusing on the larger cap stocks, which is an indication that it has gotten a bit long in the tooth and that the correction is getting pretty old."
HBO & Co shares slumped 5-1/4 to 56-1/2 after Morgan Keegan started coverage of the stock with underperform.
Viking Office Products Inc shares rose one to 24-1/8 after the company reported quarterly results in line with First Call estimates. Stewart & Stevenson Services Inc was down 1-5/16 at 20-1/16 after the company reported second quarter earnings of $0.16 per share before charges. The First Call estimate was for net of $0.34 per share.
Municipal bond dealers traded $537.7 million of bonds Monday on 2,711 trades, the Municipal Securities Rulemaking Board said.
A total of 1,686 individual issues changed hands, with 50 of those trading four or more times, MSRB said, citing figures from an automated clearance system of interdealer trades.
The Federal Reserve's decision to leave interest rates unchanged indicates the U.S. central bank does not see a strict causality between low unemployment and inflation, analysts said on Tuesday.
In a much-expected decision, the Federal Open Market Committee left the 5.25-percent federal funds rate and the 5.0-percent discount rate unchanged at its meeting on Tuesday.
"If the unemployment rate is low and there still are none of these (inflation) symptoms, there is no pressing need to tighten," DiClemente pointed out. "Otherwise, why would have they eased in January when the unemployment rate was low."
"I don't think they have ever been guided by any preconception about the NAIRU (non-accelerating inflation rate of unemployment) or any statiscal measure of where the economy is. They are guided by circumstantial evidences that tell them the economy is either developing strains or is not," DiClemente added.
"There has been some evidence of strains developing into the beginning of the year but this has not persisted into the summer," DiClemente also said. "It's very difficult to hang policy decisions on one or two indicators. We just lack the indicators of what drives inflation."
But Goldman, Sachs and Co chief U.S. economist William Dudley said the FOMC decision only shows the Fed is stacking its bets on the economy slowing down in the coming months.
Dudley stressed the Fed has not abandoned the notion high resource utilization generates inflation.
The Goldman, Sachs chief economist put the odds of a tightening at "one in four in September" and said the chances of a rate hike next month would be higher if it were not for the Fed's reluctance to change policy between Labor Day and the November presidential elections.
Dudley put at "above 50 percent" the odds of a Fed tightening on the first FOMC meeting following the elections, on November 13.
"The big issue is whether the economy grows at 2.0 percent or at 3.0 percent in the second half. If it's 3.0 percent, they'll move to tighten monetary policy," Dudley added.
"They view that the unemployment rate today is below the level consistent with stable inflation, though not far below. If the economy does not slow to trend, they'll pull the trigger."
Note - Robinson & Co Ltd runs a chain of department stores.
Coal producer Cumnock Coal Ltd said on Tuesday that its full year profit would be considerably less than the A$2.5 million previously forecast.
In a statement to the Australian Stock Exchange, the company said a production shortfall had affected the result.
Today's downgrade follows an earlier profit warning on May 15 when the company downgraded its forecast to A$2.5 million from A$4.9 million.
Cumnock is about 25.14 percent owned by Swiss metals house Glencore International AG while CIM Resources Ltd holds 5.01 percent.
Cumnock shares ended untraded but bid at A$2.45, down five cents from its previous close of A$2.50 on August 19.
NOTE - Kyoritsu Air Tech Inc is a medium-scale air compression equipment maker.
These are some of the leading stories in the Cyprus newspapers on Tuesday. Reuters has not verified these stories and does not vouch for their accuracy.
- American proposal for military talks is to be discussed at National Council session this afternoon.
- The Greek-Cyprus defence cooperation "dogma" will only be invoked in case the Cyprus military force is attacked, says government spokesman Yiannakis Cassoulides.
- The United States instists on military talks; President Clerides rejects proposal for a meeting with Turkish Cypriot leader Rauf Denktash.
- Cyprus Airways crisis still on, flight delays continue.
- Full parliamentary control over semi-governmental organisations. All decisions by management councils will have to be approved by parliament.
- Plenty of money in the market, not enough demand for loans, says A. Afxentiou, governor of Cyprus Central Bank.
- Nicosia rejects a proposal put forward by U.N. Secretary-General Boutros Boutros-Ghali for a meeting between President Clerides and Turkish Cypriot leader Rauf Denktash.
Saudi Arabia on Tuesday beheaded a convicted Saudi murderer, bringing the total number of executions so far this year in the kingdom to around 25.
An Interior Ministry statement said that the man was found guilty of stabbing to death a fellow Saudi citizen.
The public beheading by the sword had been postponed for several years until the sons of the victim reached legal age, the statement, read on Saudi television, said.
Under Islamic Sharia law enforced in conservative Saudi Arabia, relatives of a victim can pardon a convicted murderer and accept blood money instead.
On Sunday a Saudi woman was executed for killing her husband by shooting him three times in his sleep.
Saudi Arabia beheads convicted drug smugglers, rapists, murderers and other criminals.
NationsBanc Capital Markets said it won $12.400 million of Tarrant Cty., Texas  limited tax certificates of obligation, Series 1996, with a true interest cost of 4.4841 percent.
The Australian Treasury said it had included proceeds from the sale of one-third of Telstra Corp in its revenue estimates for 1997/98 and 1998/99, contingent on the passage of the appropriate legislation.
The government had decided a scoping study should be conducted to assist it in determining the best method of selling a third of the state telecommunications carrier, Treasury said in its 1996/97 budget papers.
Some airports are also supposed to be privatised in that year.
Asset sales in 1996/97 were expected to total A$5.10 billion, with A$3.39 billion of that coming from the sale last July of the government's remaining 50.4 percent shareholding in the Commonwealth Bank of Australia. A further A$1.77 billion of proceeds from the sale were due by November 1997.
The remaining airports, with the possible exception of Sydney and Sydney-West, would be leased by the end of 1997/98.
The leasing of Sydney and Sydney-West was to be deferred pending resolution of noise issues at Sydney and an enviromental impact study being conducted on a second Sydney airport.
A scoping study on the sale of Commonwealth Funds Management Ltd was currently being carried out and proceeds from any sale were expected in 1996/97, Treasury said.
The government had also decided to sell a number of common service businesses in the Department of Administrative Services.
The Nordic prime minsters' traditional summer meeting will be held in Helsinki on August 26, the Finnish government said in a statement on Tuesday.
All five Nordic premiers would attend, from Finland, Norway, Sweden, Denmark and Iceland, it said.
"The meeting will address e.g. the Nordic countries' regional co-operation, energy policies and topical EU issues," the government said.
The prime ministers would also meet Finnish President Martti Ahtisaari, it said.
They would hold a news conference at 1500/1200 GMT.
Tylan General Inc said Monday it expects to post a net loss in the third quarter because of increased legal and investment-banking fees and continued rescheduling of orders by its customers.
The company also will be taking a one-time charge of $4.1 million from its acquisition of Span Instruments. Tylan also will take a restructuring charge of about $150,000 from recent staff reductions.
Including those nonrecurring items, the company expects to report a net loss per share of between $0.20 and $0.22 for the quarter. Excluding those items, the company expects earnings per share to be between $0.10 and $0.12 for the third quarter, which ended July 28.
The third-quarter results are expected to be released Aug 28.
A Maltese bulk carrier that sank off Singapore after a collison leaked a small quantity of oil, an official of Singapore's Maritime and Port Authority said on Tuesday.
"The leak was minimal and most of the opening from which the oil leaked has been plugged," the official told Reuters.
"The oil has not reached Singapore's shore," he said.
The Maltese-flagged 14,114 dwt Herceg Novi sank after it was in collision with the 29,873 gross ton Tawainese container ship Ming Galaxy just before midnight on Sunday.
The bulk carrier had been carrying 12,000 tonnes of scrap iron and 450 tonnes of fuel and diesel oil.
"Investigation has begun into the circustances leading to the collision," the official said.
The collision occurred 5.5 km (3.4 miles) east of Singapore's Raffles lighthouse at the southern tip of Singapore.
The official said the port authority had issued a notice of removal to the owner and agent of the Herceg Novi to remove the sunken vessel as soon as possible.
The Taiwanese ship, now anchored off Johor shoal,  sustained little damage, while the Herceg Novi sank about two-and-a-half hours after the collision.
The Ming Galaxy was bound for Singapore from the Malacca Strait, while the Herceg Novi was headed for Chittagong in Bangladesh from Singapore, the offical said.
France's Matif, the second largest European derivatives exchange, said on Tuesday it aimed to be a main trading centre for euro-denominated interest rate contracts, following collapse of alliance attempts with Germany's stock and options body.
"The goal for the Matif is to create in Paris benchmark interest rate products in Euros," said a spokeswoman for the Matif. "That's the centrepiece of our strategy," she said.
The Euro is the currency to be introduced under European economic and monetary union slated to start on January 1, 1999.
The German stock and options market exchange, Deutsche Boerse, rang down the curtain last week on cooperation efforts, saying it was "not possible to develop common products right now."
France and Germany had been working since 1993 to integrate their financial markets to prepare for monetary union and to counter London's financial dominance. But their efforts were studded with delays and failures.
In April, the Matif, the French stock markets authority SBF and Deutsche Boerse abandoned plans for a joint electronic trading system for shares and derivatives when the Germans opted not to use a French-developed system for trading shares.
But they still planned more limited cooperation on interest rate contracts. The final blow came from German insistence that the Matif abandon "open outcry" for trading interest rate products. "For the Germans, it had to be electronic or nothing," said the spokeswoman, saying they showed "real dogmatism".
All other big centres which trade interest rate products use open outcry and it would have been too risky to change, she said. "It's always delicate to change a system when market participants are used to it -- it might kill the contract."
The Matif had placed a high priority on a German link-up but played it down after difficulties emerged. Matif head Gerard Pfauwadel told L'Agefi newspaper on Tuesday that interest rate products "were the real challenge for the future...Paris remains a major place for interest rate products".
More than 80 percent of the Matif's trading volume is in interest rate contracts. When monetary union starts, Paris would enjoy advantages giving it "critical mass in euros," he said.
The French treasury has already said it plans to start issuing its securities in euros as of 1999 and that it will convert the whole stock of existing securities into the Euro.
"This will give the notionnel an underlying large criticial mass of securities denominated in euros," the Matif spokeswoman said. The notionnel is its flagship 10-year government bond contract, the second most heavily traded bond future in Europe after the German bund future traded on the London International Futures and Options Exchange, Europe's largest derivatives market.
Still, the Matif faces a struggle for dominance against LIFFE. Matif's total trading volume slid 24 percent last year and were flat in the seven months to July while LIFFE's volumes were up 20 percent.
The Matif has a working group developing a new strategy that will have its recommendations ready by year end.
"It would have seemed more satisfactory from a strategic point of view to create a common platform, it would have been one less competitor if we had allied with Germany," said the Matif spokeswoman. "But the risk to be taken to achieve this was was far too high."
Scandinavian Airlines System (SAS) on Tuesday reported first half 1996 pre-tax profits slightly up on the same period last year, but said the full-year result could be slightly weaker than the record profits of 1995.
SAS said first half pre-tax profits rose to 1.05 billion Swedish crowns ($159 million) from 1.04 billion during the same period last year. The result was slightly lower than market expectations.
The carrier, which is partially owned by the governments of Sweden, Norway and Denmark, said group operating revenue fell to 17.44 billion Swedish crowns ($2.6 billion) from 17.74 billion ($2.7 billion).
A statement said an earlier forecast of somewhat weaker full-year income before the sale of fixed assets compared with 1995 remained unchanged.
"Last year was a record year," SAS Chief Executive Officer Jan Stenberg told reporters. "We cannot all the time continue to beat new world records. Our profitability is very good compared to the rest of the European airline industry."
Full-year 1995 pre-tax profits were 2.63 billion Swedish crowns ($398 million).
Operating income in the second 1996 quarter fell mainly because a stronger Swedish crown had a negative effect on revenues in foreign currency not fully compensated for by positive effects on expenses in foreign currencies.
"Part of the profit increase we would otherwise have seen we won't see because tickets sold in dollars and French franc are worth less in Swedish crowns," Stenberg said.
The Swedish crown has strengthened by six percent since the beginning of the year while the trend in the first half of 1995 was a weaking of eight percent.
After enjoying a virtual monopoly in Scandinavian skies for 50 years, SAS is now being challenged on its home base. Several airlines have recently moved into the skies traditionally dominated by SAS, undercutting its passenger prices which remain some of the highest in the world.
Virgin Express, run by Britain's high-flying entrepreneur Richard Branson, has announced the start of daily cheap flights between Copenhagen and Brussels from September. Norwegian airline Braathens SAFE has been given approval to run up to nine daily flights between Oslo and Stockholm from this autumn -- a route once tightly controlled by SAS.
Blue-chip stocks bounded higher Tuesday as the Federal Reserve's decision to keep interest rates unchanged removed a possible roadblock to the market's continued rally.
Based on early and unofficial data, the Dow Jones industrial average closed up 21.82 points at 5,721.26.
In the broader market, advancing issues led declines 12-10 on moderate volume of 336 million shares on the New York Stock Exchange.
World arms sales dropped in 1995 to their lowest level since the Cold War but Russia's rose sharply in its effort to get cash, according to a Congressional Research Service study released on Tuesday.
It said arms sales worldwide dropped to $28.8 billion last year from $40 billion after the 1991 Gulf War.
But it said Russia's weapons sales rose from $3.8 billion in 1994 to $9.1 billion last year because "now Russia actively seeks to sell weapons as a means of obtaining hard currency."
It said Russia's most important customer was China, which has bought Russian S7-27 fighter planes and Kilo class attack submarines since 1994. Iran, which was a major buyer of Russian fighter planes, T-72 tanks and Kilo submarines earlier, had not been a major customer recently because of its own economic problems, the report said.
It said the United States was the second-biggest arms seller in 1995 at $8.2 billion, down from $12.8 billion the year before. But it said the United States was the biggest arms seller for the longer periods of 1992-1995 at $69 billion and 1988-1991 at $65.9 billion.
The report said France was the third-biggest arms seller last year with $2.7 billion in sales, down from $8.9 billion the year before.
It said Britain sold $500 million worth of weapons to developing countries last year compared to $714 million in 1994; Italy $800 million last year, up from $200 million, and Germany $300 million last year from almost none the year before.
The Congressional Research Service is in the Library of Congress and does research reports for congressional committees as well as members of Congress.
NATO troops in eastern Bosnia transported tonnes of contraband Bosnian Serb ammunition and mines to pits for destruction on Tuesday, pressing on with their "Operation Volcano" mission despite local environmental concerns.
"Serb worries about the local water table have halted work in one set of pits for the moment but the operation continues in a second set of pits," NATO's Lieutenant-Colonel Max Marriner told Reuters.
"Operation Volcano is proceeding even as we respond to local environmental concerns. Theoretically we could destroy all the material in the second set of pits or find a third site. The material will be destroyed one way or the other."
A total of 24 tonnes of munitions were destroyed on Monday in two sets of explosions which sent columns of dirt and dust 300 metres (1,000 feet) into the air.
A routine NATO patrol discovered about 300 tonnes of small arms ammunition, anti-tank and anti-personnel mines in a schoolhouse in Margetici, near Sokolac, on August 5.
Because the Margetici site had not been declared to NATO as required by the Dayton peace agreement, NATO troops confiscated the material and prepared to destroy it.
About 2,000 NATO-led peace implementation troops were despatched to the area from Saturday to ensure Operation Volcano went ahead without risk to local citizens or the environment.
Military engineers dug two sets of blasts pits in a remote area near Margetici to contain the exploding munitions which they detonated in lots of a few tonnes each.
On Monday the Serbs complained that blasts from one set of pits might contaminate local water tables.
Blasting began in the other set of pits while NATO engineers considered the Serb complaint.
Operation Volcano is expected to continue for the rest of the week.
Ionian Bank reported the following daily and year-to-date changes in the volume of Greek mutual fund outstanding shares, net assets and net share prices.
Pretoria City have pulled out of an African Cup Winners' Cup quarter-final in Algeria next month because of safety fears.
The South African side were due to play CR Belouizdad in a first leg match on September 6 but said on Tuesday concern over the security situation in the north African country forced them to withdraw.
They now faces a fine from the Confederation of African Football, who have declared travel to Algeria safe.
City are the first club in two years to refuse to go to Algeria, who have hosted several African club competition matches this year without incident.
NOTE - A construction group, listed on December 18, 1995.
Total dividend for year is four H.K. cents.
NOTE - Value date 22/08, maturity date 21/11.
NOTE - Value date 22/08, maturity date 06/02/97.
NOTE - Value date 22/08, maturity date 14/08/97.
Germany's BND foreign intelligence service said on Tuesday it had been in touch since 1992 with a businessman wanted on suspicion of helping to smuggle hi-tech chemical-weapons manufacturing equipment to Libya.
German prosecutors suspect that Lebanese-born Berge Balanian arranged a deal between Libya and two German businessmen arrested this month for supplying the equipment to Tripoli between 1990 and 1993.
They are alleged to have used firms in Belgium which Balanian owned and Germany is now hunting Balanian, a German citizen, under an international arrest warrant.
The BND, already under pressure after a number of high-profile blunders, denied a report from the weekly magazine Stern that Balanian had acted as a BND informer for four years.
But it said in a statement that it had known since 1990 about Libya's intention to build a chemical weapons plant, and about the activities of a firm in Belgium, SIM, which Balanian joined no later than 1992.
BND agents questioned Balanian on nine occasions beginning in September 1992, but nonetheless failed to prevent the last of the deliveries to Libya, which prosecutors say ended in 1993.
"He merely reported in general terms about the situation in Libya; he gave no information about his own business in or with Libya," the BND said.
In an advance release from Thursday's edition, Stern had quoted Balanian as saying he had agreed his actions with the BND for four years, and that the BND must therefore have known about the smuggling operation.
"For years I have been sticking my neck out, now they want to dump on me," it quoted him saying in an interview several weeks ago. Stern said Balanian was now probably in Libya.
German prosecutors announced on Monday that they had arrested two men on suspicion of providing Libya with hi-tech mixing equipment programmed to manufacture the deadly gases sarin, soman and lost.
The news was embarrassing for Bonn, which clamped down on arms exports after German firms in the 1980s equipped a plant at Rabta in Libya suspected of making chemical weapons. Prosecutors believe Balanian also tried to supply equipment for Rabta.
The factory burned down in a mysterious fire in 1990. But earlier this year U.S. officials accused Libya of trying to build a new chemical weapons plant, this time underground, at Tarhuna, 65 km (40 miles) southeast of Tripoli.
The BND is itself trying to re-establish its reputation after becoming involved in a number of botched operations.
In the most high-profile case, it has had to fight allegations that it lured smugglers into bringing 363 grams (12.8 ounces) of highly radioactive weapons-grade plutonium to Germany from Moscow on a passenger airliner in 1994.
Wolverine Tube Inc said on Tuesday it had named Thomas Roller president and chief executive officer, effective September 16.
Roller was most recently president and chief executive officer of Fruehauf Trailer Corp.
Wolverine said Roller will report to John Quarles, who will remain chairman of the board.
Quarles currently also holds the positions of president and chief executive officer.
Roller will be responsible for all daily operating and administrative activities associated with Wolverine, as well as its financial performance and growth, the company said.
The New Zealand Commerce Commission said on Wednesday that Fletcher Challenge's involvement in the consortium which bought Forestry Corp of NZ would not result in dominance in any market.
Commission chairman Alan Bollard said the commission had previously investigated the possibility of a Fletcher Challenge bid, and had concluded it would not result in dominance.
The anti-monopolies commission found that a merged Fletcher/Forestry Corp would have less than 30 percent of the market for sawn timber, less than 40 percent of the market for wood chips and less than 50 percent for logs.
Fletcher Forest chief executive Mike Andrews said on Tuesday he had legal advice that Fletcher did not require Commerce Commission approval to buy Forestry Corp.
He estimated that Fletcher had around 15 percent of New Zealand plantation forests and Forestry Corp had 11 to 12 percent, while Carter Holt Harvey had about 23 percent.
The international banking community is poised to sign new agreements in the interbank market which should reduce credit risk and boost liquidity.
The British Bankers' Association (BBA) said on Tuesday it had launched a legal mechanism, called the Deposit Netting Agreement (DNA), for offsetting credit risks where two banks have lent money to one another.
The BBA expects the top 15 banks trading in London to participate in DNA.
Barclays, one of the main drivers behind the new standard, is sending new agreements to its 30 or 40 international counterparties and hoping for a speedy return.
Barclays signed the first of the internationally recognised agreements two weeks ago with National Westminster Bank, with whom it previously had such an agreement for the UK. Counterparties to these agreements will be based in Japan, Switzerland, France, Germany, the UK and the U.S.. More parallel measures are expected from the BBA within a few weeks.
These rules will toughen up security standards in the tradeable certificates of deposit market as the Bank of England seeks to extend the range of currencies these can be traded in.
New monthly lending figures from the BBA showed total lending by the major banks to the UK private sector rose by a seasonally adjusted 2.68 billion stg in July.
This was less than the June increase of 3.34 billion stg and below the six monthly average of 3.3 billion stg. A rise of 539 million stg in consumer credit, compared with a gain of 266 million stg in June, was a key underlying feature.
Three Chinese pensioners have been pedalling the word about the return of Hong Kong to China on a marathon bicycle ride across the country, Xinhua news agency said on Tuesday.
The three men, aged between 64 and 70, recently bicycled 5,300 km (3,200 miles) across China to celebrate the return of the British colony on July 1, 1997.
Along the way they have been holding seminars and distributing information about the handover, the agency said.
The 88-day road trip took them from Yongcheng city in eastern Shandong province to a remote checkpoint on the border between China's northwestern Xinjiang region and Kazakhstan, which they reached on August 15, it said.
One of them decided last October not to cut his hair until the colony returns to China next year, it said.
China has been trying to boost public interest in the return of Hong Kong with a spate of television shows, exhibitions and newspaper articles. It recently launched a nationwide competition to test the general knowledge of the colony.
Jakarta call money fell to 13.0/14.0 percent from 15.0/16.0 percent, dealers said.
They said the market was well supplied despite a neutral central bank money policy early on Tuesday.
One foreign bank dealer said operators seemed to expect some loosening of liquidity supply due to incoming transfers of civil servants' salaries in the next few days.
He said some state banks were seen offering two-week money over spot at 14.25 percent against 15.0 percent on Monday.
Dealers said offshore operators were also seen keeping some pressure on swap premiums as they continued to unload.
Overnight swap was at 0.52/0.55 and tom/next at 0.55/0.57.
The average overnight interbank rate on Monday was 16.47 percent, compared with 16.62 percent on Friday.
Saudi Arabia's King Fahd said the agriculture sector played a vital role in the oil-dominated economy and the kingdom was encouraging private sector investment in agriculture, Saudi Press Agency said on Tuesday.
"This sector will continue to play a vital role in the country's economic diversification drive by expanding its links with other sectors," he told a cabinet meeting on Monday.
He said the private sector would continue to play a leading role in agricultural development and the government would support those efforts by providing research and facilities.
The king said the sector was an "indivisible part" of Saudi Arabia's overall security. It provides jobs and revenue.
The Gulf Arab state is the world's biggest oil exporter. But it has been working to diversify its oil-dominated economy to lessen reliance on its main source of revenue.
Saudi Arabia produces wheat, potatoes and other goods.
Agricultural output contributes about 11 percent of the non-oil gross domestic product.
In the kingdom's 1995-2000 development plan, agriculture is expected to grow 3.1 percent annually, lower than previous targets.
Australian Democrats Leader Cheryl Kernot said on Tuesday it was too early to say if her party could pass all the measures included in the conservative government's 1996/97 budget released earlier on Tuesday.
Asked if it was a budget the Democrats could pass, Kernot told Radio 2UE: "I don't think I can answer that tonight".
The Liberal-National coalition government needs the support of the Democrats, independents or other minor parties in the upper house, the Senate, to pass its legislation.
In a separate statement, Kernot said the Democrats would not block supply bills.
"We do reserve the right where appropriate, to move amendments requesting that funding be restored, and send them to the House of Representatives for a vote," she said.
Kernot said about half the cuts planned by the government could be beyond the Democrats' power to review because of the supply commitment.
Treasurer Peter Costello earlier on Tuesday released a budget for the fiscal year to June 30, 1997, cutting spending by A$3.9 billion, for an underlying deficit of A$5.65 billion.
The underlying deficit excludes asset sales and state government debt repayments.
Kuwait Investment Projects Company said on Tuesday it purchased a majority stake in Saudi Arabian Dairy and Food Company.
"We bought 73 percent of SADFCO from Kuwaiti investors and a Saudi investor," an official in the Kuwaiti company said. The rest of the shares are held by Saudi citizens.
The official could not give a value for the deal but he told Reuters "the purpose of the move is to expand our operations in the Gulf."
The Kuwait firm, which has a capital of 105 million dinars ($351.2 million), is a listed investment company.
SADFCO made a net profit of 70.4 million riyals ($18.8 million) in 1995 on sales of 712.8 million riyals, the Kuwait News Agency said.
The main Czech power producer CEZ a.s. plans to release its first half results at 1000 CET (8000 GMT) on Wednesday, the company said in a statement on Tuesday.
The results will be released at a news conference at the company's headquarters in Prague, it said.
CEZ, which posted 9.3 billion crowns in net profit last year, is the largest Czech company in terms of earnings and second to telecommunications monopoly SPT Telecom when measured by market capitalisation.
The firm posted a 3.7 billion crown net profit in the first quarter of this year, down from 3.88 billion in the same period of 1995, according to international accounting standards, citing disagreement on prices CEZ charges regional power distributors.
CEZ has announced it would aim to pay first-ever dividends on 1996 profit, projected at the same level as in 1995.
CEZ shares are listed on the main market of the Prague Stock Exchange (PSE). PSE regulations require main market companies to announce their financial results every quarter.
All publicly traded companies are required by law to publish their results semi-annually.
A majority of Swedes are opposed to Sweden joining the European Monetary Union (EMU), a survey by a national pollster said on Tuesday.
The Swedish Institute of Public Opinion Research (SIFO) said the poll found 56 percent of Swedes did not want their country to join the EMU while only 21 percent were in favour. The rest were undecided.
Over 61 percent of supporters of Sweden's ruling Social Democrat Party were against joining the EMU and only 17 percent in favour of the move.
"The SDP, which is to deal with the EMU question in its 1997 autumn congress, has a very critical opinion to take into account," said Swedish daily newspaper, Dagens Nyheter, as it reported the findings of the poll.
Dagens Nyheter said Sweden's main opposition party, the centre-right Moderates, is officially in favour of joining the EMU but will have an uphill battle to convince its supporters.
Only 40 percent of Moderate supporters were in favour of EMU and 35 percent were against, according to the SIFO poll.
Almost one quarter of the 1,000 Swedes questioned by telephone this month had never heard of the EMU, said SIFO.
The Ministry of Finance said on Wednesday that it was offering 1.0 trillion yen worth of 3.1 percent 10-year Japanese government bonds (JGBs) through a price-competitive auction.
The auction will close at noon (0300 GMT) and the results will be announced at 2.30 p.m. (0530 GMT).
The issue date is September 20, and maturity date is September 20, 2006.
Lithuanian Energy Minister Saulius Kutas on Tuesday defended plans to merge key state-owned oil sector companies into one large holding company ahead of a key parliamentary vote on the project later this week.
The Lietuvos Nafta firm is to be formed from the Mazheikiu refinery, the Naftotiekis pipeline company, Butinge oil terminal and the Lietuvos Kuras chain of petrol stations.
Parliament is due to vote on the plan on Thursday.
"The main reason behind the forming of the national oil concern is not to privatise Lietuvos Nafta but to provide capital for the energy sector," Kutas told parliament.
The state has to hold 51 percent of Lietuvos Nafta for three years but can then bring its share down to 34 percent.
The capital of the company is valued at around 790 million litas. If the company is successful, an emission of around 300 million litas of stock would be made.
Opposition politicians are worried Russian giant Lukoil will become a dominant player in the Lithuanian market and want the pipeline company to be kept in state hands.
But the government has decided that no single investor can hold more than 34 percent of the new company.
"It makes no sense to create a national company which does not have its own pipeline," Kutas told parliament.
French milling wheat is heading for a high protein content this year, with the national average reaching at least 12.2 percent against 11.2 percent last year, crop analysts said on Tuesday.
"Initial results suggest a gain of at least one percent over last year," an analyst at France's technical grain institute ITCF told Reuters.
If this is confirmed, protein content would exceed the average for the last 20 years of 12 percent, which is also the level meeting the criteria set by French millers for bread-making wheat.
Protein content is especially strong this year because of extra nitrogen concentration in plants caused by the dry weather.
Crop experts said the only unknown was the possible negative impact on protein content of thunderstorms forecast in the Nord-Pas de Calais region where the harvest is still in progress.
Hagberg values, which are also important for milling, were judged "satisfactory" with the exception of France's number two "Sideral" variety at 200-210.
Germination problems linked to high temperatures, but also in some cases to sporadic showers, hurt the Sideral variety in the Northeast, the Loire and Bourgogne regions.
Millers prefer Hagberg values of 200 to 250 but have set a absolute acceptable minimum of 120.
Another liability challenge to the tobacco industry headed toward a decision in court Tuesday, this one from the family of a man who began smoking at age six and died of lung cancer 46 years later.
A jury in Marion County Superior Court was expected to begin deliberations in the case on Wednesday or Thursday.
The widow and three teenaged children of Richard Rogers, an Indianapolis lawyer who died at the age of 52 in 1987, are seeking unspecified damages.
The suit was moving toward a close as Kansas was set to become the 11th state to sue the tobacco industry to recover Medicaid costs of smokers, a spokeswoman for the state attorney general said Monday.
Kansas Attorney General Carla Stovall was to hold a news conference Tuesday to give details of the filing.
Also on Tuesday, the Public Advocate for the City of New York urged Mayor Rudolph Giuliani to sue the tobacco industry to recoup health care costs of smokers. Public Advocate Mark Green, in a letter to the mayor, said the city should join the group of states and the city of San Francisco in their efforts to obtain Medicaid funds from cigarette companies.
The Rogers case, similar to hundreds that have been filed across the country, comes on the heels of a one earlier this month in Jacksonville, Florida, where a jury awarded $750,000 to a man who smoked for 44 years before he was stricken with lung cancer.
In that case the jury said the Lucky Strikes he smoked were a defective product and that cigarette maker Brown & Williamson Tobacco Corp. was negligent by failing to inform the public about the health risks of smoking.
Brown & Williamson Tobacco Corp. is a unit of Britain's B.A.T Industries Plc.
In the Indianapolis case, which was tried once before and wound up in a hung jury, the Rogers family contended that the industry peddled an addictive product that was the cause of his lung cancer.
Rogers originally filed the suit himself. He quit smoking about a year before his death after he was diagnosed with cancer.
The suit is against R.J. Reynolds Tobacco Co., Liggett Group Inc., Philip Morris Inc. and The American Tobacco Co., now owned by Brown & Williamson.
RJR Nabisco Holdings Corp. is the parent company of R.J. Reynolds Tobacco Co. Liggett is a subsidiary of Brooke Group Ltd.. Philip Morris Inc. is a subsidiary of Philip Morris Cos. Inc..
Lawyers for Rogers' family said during the trial that he knew he was addicted and tried often to quit, but that the industry, by selling an addictive product, took that choice away from him.
Lawyers for the industry countered that Rogers was exposed to warning labels on cigarette packs for at least 20 years and should have been fully aware of the risks stated on them.
The following debt issue was priced on Tuesday, said lead manager Goldman Sachs & Co.
CNA Financial Corp said in a U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission filing Tuesday that it held a 9.9 percent stake in LaSalle Re Holdings Ltd, or 1,425,354 common shares.
The group disclosed its latest position on LaSalle in a 13G filing. As of August 7, the outstanding totalled 14,397,000 common shares.
Filings under 13G are usually made by institutions and large investors with "passive" investment objectives in a company. Unlike 13D filings, those reports do not list the latest transactions.
COMEX and NYMEX precious metals futures ended little changed Tuesday, after news at the close the U.S. Federal Reserve left interest rates unchanged at its latest Open Market Committee Meeting, as expected.
"The Fed's move to keep monetary policy unchanged was expected, but most precious metals have been basing recently, after the slide earlier in the year, with most players now perhaps a bit too complacent about the lack of volatility," Paine Webber analyst Bernard Savaiko said.
"Few were expecting silver's break out from a two month range Monday, but silver held it's gains today, with a test of further resistance around $5.28 now possible," he said.
COMEX September silver ended unchanged at $5.21 an ounce after trading in a $5.170-5.230 range, on total estimated volume of 22,000 lots.
"Silver was getting too cheap relative to gold with the gold/silver ratio up around 76 or 77 recently," he said.
The jump in silver prices Monday to two month highs lowered the ratio to back to 74.2.
"The approaching first delivery date for the September COMEX contract, which still has some 270 million ounces of open interest, may have provided some incentive to go long," one analyst said.
COMEX December gold ended up $0.50 an ounce at $392.90, after trading in a narrow $392.20-393.00 range.
On the charts, gold's uptrend since late June still looks intact, traders said, but the rally's momentum has waned and further gains may just prompt more producer hedging.
Bullion was quoted $387.50/388.00 in New York near the close, from $387.10 at the London afternoon fix, and a New York close Monday at $386.90/387.40.
"The reduced probability that the Federal Reserve will tighten monetary policy ahead of the November presidential elections should help keep gold prices steady until end user demand begins to improve again," Smith Barney analyst David Rinehimer said.
The next Federal Open Market Committee meeting (FOMC) is due on September 24.
NYMEX October platinum ended up $1.10 an ounce at $404.10, while NYMEX September palladium closed up $1.50 an ounce at $127.25.
"Support in palladium seems to be forming at $124 and is not likely to be penetrated near term," one analyst said.
Palladium slid to two and a half year lows last week.
"The large open interest in the September NYMEX price could lead prices to push back to $130-136 in the next two weeks."
--Clive McKeef, New York Commodities Desk, +212-859-1641.
China's capital, Beijing, is sinking by 10 mm to 20 mm (0.39 in to 0.79 in) a year because of excessive groundwater use, the Xinhua news agency said on Tuesday.
Over the past 40 years, the ground has sunk by more than 700 mm (27.6 in) in the city's eastern suburbs and by 600 mm (23.6 in) in the northeastern suburbs, damaging buildings and underground pipelines, Xinhua said. The rate at which it is sinking has increased since 1987, the agency said.
"The subsidence is mainly caused by excessive groundwater use," Xinhua quoted Hong Libo, chief engineer of the Beijing Institute of Surveying and Map Design Research, as saying.
Hong attributed the increased groundwater use to rising industrial extraction and water consumption caused by the city's growing population, the agency said.
The city's southern and northwestern suburbs were also sinking, but not as fast as the eastern and northeastern areas, it said.
Experts warned that continued sinking might threaten the city's future. The only way to halt it was to restructure industries, limit groundwater consumption and control the expansion of the city, Xinhua said.
The award is expected Monday, August 19, 1996.
Delivery is firm for September 5, 1996.
South Africa's rand, which touched an all time low against the dollar of 4.59 in overnight New York trade, was seriously undervalued, deputy finance minister Gill Marcus said on Tuesday.
Marcus told parliament during a finance debate that the more than 20 percent devaluation of the rand since mid-February was "uppermost in all our minds".
But she added: "There is no question that the rand is significantly undervalued and is trading at a level that is out of kilter with the sound fundamentals of the economy."
Marcus's assessment contrasted with a report on Monday by Ivor Jones, Roy & Co/Deutsche Morgan Grenfell which said the rand was up to 12 percent overvalued.
Analysts have attributed part of the rand's fall from around 3.65 to the dollar in mid-February to the fact that it was overvalued at the time.
But most analysts believe the currency has now fallen below its true value.
Brazil's benchmark overnight rate dropped to 2.638 percent a month, from 2.653 percent last week, at today's 3.382 billion reais sale of 56-day Central Bank bonds, dealers said.
The auction result was in line with market expectations, they said.
The 56-day bonds will mature on October 16. Today's auction is expected to add 618 million reais to the banking system, with four billion reais in old bonds coming due Wednesday.
Norwegian metals producer Elkem ASA on Tuesday booked a 33 percent rise in pre-tax profits in the first half 1996 but said it expected a decline in most of its markets in the latter half of the year.
Elkem recorded profits of 598 million before tax in the six months to June 30 compared with 449 million crowns a year ago. Operating profits rose 154 million crowns to 652 million crowns.
But manganese and chrome activities showed a somewhat weaker trend, partly due to a steep decline in ferrochrome prices.
The group wrote-down ferrochrome stocks of 27 million crowns at the end of the second quarter due to a further drop in the ferrochrome market for third-quarter delivery.
The results came in slightly above market expectations and sent the share price to a high at 89.50 crowns before it dropped back to close 3.50 crowns up at 87.50 crowns.
The ferrosilicon division more than doubled operating profit in the six-month period to 189 million crowns against 77 million crowns a year ago.
Elkem said ferrosilicon demand generally remained good and prices were expected to stabilise in the short term.
"Market development will depend, among other things, on the power situation in important producer companies such as Brazil and China, in addition to Norway," the company said.
First-half operating profit for manganese and chrome rose 85 percent to 193 million crowns despite a decline in manganese alloys' and ferrochrome prices in the second quarter.
Elkem said ferrochrome prices sunk 20 percent from the first quarter 1996 to the second quarter, leaving them around 30 percent below levels in the fourth quarter 1995.
The company forecast prices for third-quarter delivery to be about 20 percent lower than second-quarter prices and roughly 45 percent less than their peak level in 1995.
Market conditions for aluminium were also expected to remain weak in the coming months.
The group's aluminium division saw operating profits in the first half slip to 80 million crowns compared with 185 million crowns in the 1995 period.
"The markets are generally expected to decline somewhat in the latter half of the year...It is expected that the third quarter will be affected by seasonally low shipments for most of the company's main products," Elkem's statement said.
Scheduled competitive sales total $155 million in seven offerings for Wednesday, August 21, according to Reuters Municipal Bond Information Group.
The largest issue is a $120 million Connecticut offering at 1100 EDT.
Union Bank of Hong Kong has mandated Jardine Fleming and Bayerische Landesbank to arrange a US$50 million floating rate certificate of deposit issue, bankers said.
The facility has a final maturity of five years with put and call options in years three and four.
The issue will be priced at par to float at 45 basis points over the three-month London Interbank Offered Rate.
Fees are not available yet.
General syndication will start next week.
Federal aviation authorities on Tuesday ended a delay in issuing new anti-terrorism rules for cargo shippers, sending out a notice that the regulations would now go into effect on August 28.
Investigators have not yet determined the cause of the explosion, which killed all 230 people on board, but one possible cause being weighed is a bomb in the cargo hold of the Paris-bound Boeing 747.
They would impose tighter certification of cargo by forwarders, consolidators and other handlers to make sure no explosive or hazardous materials were being shipped.
The FAA said the certification of handlers and cargo would include personal photo identification of shipper and consent to search the cargo, but gave few other details.
--Chicago Corp analyst Jackson Spears said he started coverage of First Enterprise Financial Group Inc with a buy rating.
--Shares in the consumer and automobile finance company closed up 3/4 at 10-1/8.
Goldman Sachs & Co said it tentatively priced $71 million of Ohio Building Authority state facilities refunding bonds, 1996 Series A, with a top yield of 5.00 percent in 2005.
UNTIL 11:00AM.
The award is expected Wednesday, August 21, 1996.
Delivery is expected on August 29, 1996.
Goldman, Sachs & Co.
A.G. Edwards & Sons, Inc.
S.B.K- Brooks Investment Corp.
Algerian security forces killed five Moslem rebels on Sunday night near Algiers and one person was wounded when a bomb exploded on Monday in a coffee shop in the northeastern town of Tizi-Ouzou, Algerian newspapers said.
The newspaper Liberte said the five rebels were killed at Sidi el Kebir, near the capital, and security forces seized weapons.
Le Matin said the coffee shop bomb was the second attack on a coffee shop in central Tizi-Ouzou, 90 km (55 miles) from Algiers.
A rash of bomb attacks against restaurants and coffee shops in Algiers and other towns in July killed more than 20 people, according to Algerian reports.
The government-appointed watchdog body, Human Rights National Observatory (ONDH), was quoted on Monday by el Watan newspaper as saying about 1,400 civilians have been killed in the past two years in bomb attacks, including booby-trapped cars, blamed on Moslem guerrillas.
An estimated 50,000 people, mostly Moslem militants and security forces members, have been killed in Algeria's violence since early 1992 when authorities cancelled a general election in which radical Islamists had taken a commanding lead.
Contracts on the treasury bill repurchase market in Shanghai ended mixed on Tuesday, with turnover falling to 8.43 million lots from 9.26 million.
The annual rate for the most active three-day contract rose to 18.60 percent from 12.70 percent and the seven-day contract ended little changed at 11.54 percent from 11.55 percent.
One lot is 1,000 yuan face value of treasury bills.
Most contracts on the T-bill spot market in Shanghai ended mostly up on Tuesday on a technical rebound after Monday's losses, traders said. Combined volume of the nine-contract market fell to 2.26 million lots from 2.98 million.
The most active 10-year bond that matures in June 2006 closed slightly up at 118.97 yuan from 118.90 yuan, with volume falling to 1.89 million lots from 2.78 million.
Traders said the price of the contract would linger in a narrow range in the near future because of limited upward potential at such a high level but support from institutions and individual investors would prevent it from falling sharply.
NOTE - Kozosushi So-Honbu Co Ltd is a nationwide franchiser of take-out sushi.
COAL - TBN 110,000 tonnes coal Baltimore/Moneypoint 16-30/9 $5.70 fio ninety-six hours shinc/25,000 Glencore.
TBN 60,000 tonnes Newcastle/Bukpyung 5-15/9 $7.50 fio 20,000 shex/12,000 shinc Hanjin.
Cathy - 65,000 tonnes coal Maracaibo/Ijmuiden 28/9-5/9 $6.75 20,000 shinc/2.5 days shinc Cargill (recent).
TBN 150,000 tonnes ore Narvik/Revadanda Dec $5.80 fio scale load/12,000 shinc Vikram Ispat.
Marshal Zakharov - 100,000 tonnes Ponta da Madeira/Gijon 25-31/8 $4.25 fio six days shinc ENEMM.
Fixtures reported from New York on Monday.
Aditya Prakash 28,000 long tons scrap 1-10/9 San Francisco/S.Korea $18.50 LCM.
Fixtures reported from London on Monday.
Rialto - 60,000 tonnes coal Norfolk/Lisbon 9-14/9 $5.25 fio 20,000/8,250 Van Ommeren (recent).
Tristar TBN - 57,000 tonnes coal Tarahan/Taiwan 26/10-4/11 plus 16-25/11 each $4.16 fio 15,000 shinc/20,000 shinc Taipower.
K Line TBN - 57,000 tonnes coal Tanjung Bara/Taiwan 6-15/10 16-25/10 6-15/11 plus 11-20/11 $3.20/$3.35/$3.45/$3.45 fio resp 30,000 shinc/20,000 shinc Taipower.
TBN 60,000 tonnes coal Newport News/Rotterdam 1-14/9 $5.70 fio HMM.
Intimate Brands Inc said Tuesday it was on target to open about 300 new stores or 800,000 square feet of new retail space this year.
Intimate Brands said it had opened 142 stores and made expansions totaling 407,000 square feet of selling space to date this year.
It said its chain store Victoria's Secret would increase its share of the international catalogue market in 1996 by expanding circulation in Canada and Japan.
Rouen grain loadings in the first half of the month were about a third below the average daily rate for August last year, port officials said on Tuesday.
The northern French port loaded 153,390 tonnes of grain for export between August 1 and 14, compared with 491,000 tonnes during the whole of August 1995, they said.
Wheat made up all the total except 1,555 tonnes, which was barley for Italy.
No grain ships are due in port in the next few days, the officials said.
Several Argentine trade unionists were injured in a gunfight on Tuesday outside a meeting due to vote on whether to hold a general strike next month, local media reported.
The state-run news agency Telam said seven were injured in two outbursts of gunfire at a union leisure center outside Buenos Aires. Truck drivers' union leader Hugo Moyano said at least four of his colleagues were injured and were taken to a hospital.
Television reporters at the scene said security guards refused entry to the meeting to about 300 members of the truck drivers' union, then opened fire on them. They said unionists appeared to have fired back.
The Central Confederal Committee of unions was scheduled to vote at the meeting near Ezeiza international airport on proposals for a second general strike against the Peronist government's austerity measures. It would follow a 24-hour stoppage that took place on Aug. 8.
The main CGT labor federation, which is normally close to President Carlos Menem's government but led the first strike, wants a 36-hour strike in September while other, more hardline unions want a 48-hour stoppage.
CGT chief Gerardo Martinez, speaking to local radio, blamed the gunfight on "outside groups who want to damage the image of the unions."
Poland's ruling left-wing coalition will begin talks this week on a cabinet reshuffle to accompany an approaching reorganisation of ministries, Prime Minister Wlodzimierz Cimoszewicz said on Tuesday.
"The leadership of the coalition will meet on Wednesday to discuss...the line-up in the newly-created ministries," Cimoszewicz told reporters before a cabinet session.
The cabinet reform, scrapping seven ministries and creating four new ones, has again divided the uneasy coalition of the ex-communist Democratic Left Alliance (SLD) and the smaller Polish Peasant Party (PSL), in power since 1993.
The Peasants, who analysts believe want to strengthen their role in government, say the reform should be linked to the dismissal of the current cabinet and appointment of a new one.
The SLD's Cimoszewicz aims to replace ministers gradually as of October, when the months long process of liquidating current ministries and creating new ones is due to begin.
Cimoszewicz said on Tuesday that decisions on cabinet appointments could not be expected soon.
The hottest argument is widely expected to concern the two new, powerful ministries of the economy and of the treasury as well as the finance ministry, which will remain important despite a diminished role.
Newspapers have quoted coalition sources as saying that Finance Minister Grzegorz Kolodko, the author of the government's economic programme, is likely to be dismissed.
Last week Cimoszewicz, asked about Kolodko's prospects, said no minister could be sure of keeping a cabinet job.
Kolodko, a non-party technocrat linked to the more reform-oriented SLD, has won praise from international institutions for maintaining financial discipline that helped Poland sustain economic growth over the past three years.
Peasant leaders, cautious about privatisation and trade liberalisation, have also suggested they will try to oust the SLD's liberal Privatisation Minister Wieslaw Kaczmarek.
The Peasant party's parliamentary speaker Jozef Zych has said rifts over the cabinet reshuffle could cause a break-up of the coalition and bring about early general elections, otherwise not scheduled until late next year.
NOTE - Full name of the insurance subsidiary of Deutsche Bank AG is Deutscher Herold. The net profit figure refers to the group holding company. The company said the 20 percent dividend represents a payout of 7.2 million marks.
President Bill Clinton handed millions of Americans a raise on Tuesday, signing into law a bill to increase the minimum wage for the first time in five years, by 90 cents per hour to $5.15.
The bill will boost the wage, typically paid to unskilled workers in restaurants and stores, by 50 cents to $4.75 on Oct. 1 and by 40 cents to $5.15 on Sept. 1, 1997.
It will sweeten the pill for the mostly small businesses that will pay the higher labor costs by handing them some $22 billion in tax breaks over 10 years, paying for this in part by reimposing a 10 percent tax on airline tickets.
The passage of the minimum wage is a victory for Clinton, who called for the measure when he ran for president in 1992, and his fellow Democrats, who forced the legislation through Congress over the objections of many Republicans.
Clinton signed the bill with great fanfare at an elaborate outdoor ceremony with music from the Marine band. After signing the bill, he carried a small girl in a pink dress -- the daughter of one of the workers invited -- in his arms as he greeted the crowd.
Year		     Amount    Coupon     Yield     Price  Conc.
Argentine stocks bucked the trend on Wall Street and Latin America to close lower Tuesday, weighed down by a fresh bout of technical selling.
"The market is very hesitant and mindful of technical factors -- today it just shrugged off the good news from the Fed," said Jorge Bonanno of Interfin brokers, referring to the U.S. Federal Reserve's decision to keep interest rates steady.
Traders said uncertainty generated by a recent package of tax bills was keeping investors at bay.
"Congress seems to be warming to the measures and we expect it to pass them fairly soon, but you can never know for sure. Then you have some bad news, like media speculation on alleged government plans to tax fixed-term deposits, which is hurting the banking sector," said Bonanno.
Technical analysts forecast the MerVal would remain volatile Wednesday but would head back up towards resistance at 533 points later in the week.
The broad market index slipped 1.4 percent in the session, with losing issues pounding winners 29 to seven and 13 stocks closing flat.
The only main-tier gainers were utilities Capex and Transportadora de Gas del Sur, which tacked on 2.1 percent and 0.4 percent, respectively.
Heaviest MerVal losses were in oil concern Sol Petroleo, holding company Comercial del Plata and construction stock Polledo, which tumbled 6.5 percent, 6.0 percent and 5.3 percent, respectively.
NOTE: (a) - Pro forma figures treat the acquisition of Greenberg's LP as if it had occurred on January 1, 1995.
Sweden's share market closed with gains on Tuesday, getting a positive injection from the drugs sector as Astra rebounded and buoyed by overseas economic data.
The general index rose 0.81 percent to close at 1952.71 after shares valued at 2.9 billion crowns changed hands.
Brokers said the mood of the market was upbeat.
"The reporting period has been much more positive than people expected," said one broker.
The banking sector, however, slipped, ahead of a bout of half-year reports later this week with sector index losing 0.07 percent.
Nordbanken closed 1.5 crowns higher at 136.5 crowns but Handelsbanken was 0.5 crowns weaker at 147.5 crowns and S-E-Banken was steady at 56.50 crowns.
Drug major Astra posted a seven crown gain, closing at 275 crowns, as it recovered some of its losses after posting a weaker-than-expected half year figure. The drug sector index rose 1.85 percent.
Blue chip telecoms group Ericsson was 2.5 crowns higher at 149.5 crowns.
Engineer Atlas Copco closed 1.5 crowns higher at 119.5 crowns after reporting a slightly higher than expected six month profit.
Mining and minerals company Trelleborg dropped 0.5 crowns to 85 crowns after weaker-than-hoped results.
First International Bank of Israel Ltd.
Net return on equity on an annual basis was 8.3 percent in the first half against 9.5 percent in the same period last year and 8.7 percent in all of 1995.
Shareholders' equity on June 30 totalled 1.9 billion shekels.
Total consolidated assets were 29.0 billion shekels on June 30 against 25.9 billion a year earlier.
Credit to the public on June 30 was 20.9 billion shekels against 18.2 billion shekels a year earlier while deposits from the public were 22.9 billion shekels against 20.9 billion.
The bank said that its provident funds -- long-term savings funds with special tax benefits -- had assets on June 30 of 8.84 billion shekels against 8.79 billion last year.
The board of directors declared a half-year dividend of 27.6 million shekels.
NOTE: Share figures adjusted for one-for-five reverse stock split on February 1, 1996.
State oil monopoly Petroleos Mexicanos (Pemex) said Tuesday that all its key crude export ports were open.
Asked whether Pajaritos, Dos Bocas or Cayo Arcas had closed because of Caribbean tropical storm Dolly, which is approaching Mexico, a spokeswoman told Reuters: "They are all open for crude exports".
Dolly, the fourth big weather front of the Atlantic season, is picking up steam off Mexico's Caribbean coast, the National Meterological Service said earlier Tuesday.
Centered 160 km (100 miles) east of El Ubero in the southern state of Quintana Roo, Dolly currently is moving west-northwest at 22 km/h (14 mph).
The Australian government's changes to superannuation in Tuesday's budget made the system fairer and more equitable, the Life Investment and Superannuation Association of Australia (LISA) said.
"Changes to make the superannuation system fairer and more equitable including ironing our some current anomalies are understandable given budgetary circumstances," LISA Executive Director John Maroney said in a statement.
On Tuesday the government announced a reduction in the tax concession for superannuation payments by the wealthy and granted banks and others the right to offer Retirement Savings Accounts (RSAs), which compete on the same tax terms as conventional superannuation funds.
Maroney said he welcomed the introduction of RSAs.
"They are a potentially useful extension as new instruments of choice and competition in the financial system," he said.
However Macquarie Bank said that while welcoming the introduction of RSAs, it was concerned that investors who kept contributing to RSAs would be short-changed when they retired.
"We're concerned that sums of around A$10,000 -- which is the point at which a long term investment strategy really begins working -- will be left to lanquish in RSAs earning low rates of interest," Macquarie Investment Services Director Brian Thomas said in a statement.
Shares in Great Universal Stores were up 10p to 650p by 0806 GMT, leading other retail shares higher, on what traders characterised as a short squeeze.
Shares in Next were up 5-1/2p to 563-1/2. Shares in Dixons rose 9p to 533p. Shares in Kingfisher rose 7p to 661, after touching a peak at 662p. Shares in Boots climbed 5p to 633p.
Nepal's textile mills, closed for three weeks in protest against an increase in sales tax, re-opened on Tuesday after the government agreed to review a tax proposal, a senior industry official said.
"We will open the factories as the government has agreed to consider some of our policy-related demands," Mahesh Lal Pradhan, president of Nepal Textile Industries' Association (NTIA), told Reuters.
More than 200 textile plants closed last month, throwing 20,000 people out of work, after the government raised the sales tax to 15 percent from five percent. The industry wants the government to restore the old rate.
Prime Minister Sher Bahadur Deuba, who is also Finance Minister, had assured the entrepreneurs that he would take care of the interest of factory owners, Pradhan said.
Factory owners said the sales tax hike had made Nepali products costlier than textiles imported from India or Tibet. Cheaper textiles were also smuggled in from India, they said.
Pradhan said the government had also agreed to make the valuation of imports realistic and take strong measures against smuggling.
Levi Strauss & Co. said Tuesday it was launching a line of slacks meant to appeal to men who don't like suits, in only the third major brand introduction in the company's 140-year history.
The new slacks, to be called Slates, will be marketed as dressier than the company's famous jeans or its Dockers pants brand, but not as formal as suits.
The pants, to be aimed at men in their 30s and 40s who grew up wearing Levi's jeans and Dockers khakis, are meant to give a big boost to the San Francisco-based clothing company, though how well men accept the new line remains to be seen, industry analysts said.
"We're going to awaken a sleeping giant of a category that we think has enormous potential," Jann Westfall, president of the Slates brand, said in a statement.
Those men want something different to wear as the workplace gets more casual, "a new look for business and social occasions that falls between casual cotton pants and suits," Westfall said.
The pants will come in flannel, wool gabardine and other fabrics with a suggested retail price of $50 to $90 a pair, said Lory Cogan, Levi vice president for marketing.
The new line will come in a broad range of styles, colours and sizes, and the pants in most cases will not require tailoring, which Levi hopes will lure men who want hassle-free shopping.
Cogan said research revealed that men hate to shop for dress pants and believe "it's more enjoyable to go to the dentist" because they can't find what they need or like.
Slates aims to change that when it makes its debut this fall in department stores, backed by a $20 million marketing campaign.
"They will probably dominate the market," said retail consultant Alan Millstein. He added that slacks are a small market with very few players, such as the Haggar and Farah brands.
He said that Levi Strauss is trying to expand its business by going after the $1.9 billion-a-year market, but he doesn't see it as a "great growth engine" for the company.
Millstein questioned how many pairs of slacks men would buy at the prices set by Levi's.
A research study done last year for the company showed that 85 percent of American companies that had a traditional dress code were now allowing some form of more casual attire in the workplace.
In a national telephone survey of men in their 30s and 40s, almost half of men who do not work in jeans or a uniform said their office dress code is somewhere between suits and cotton pants, according to Levi Strauss.
Westfall believes Slates will allow men to express more individuality, youthfulness and personal style than they can in a suit. She said the pants have an "accessible style."
The privately held company, which employs 36,000 people around the world, had global sales of $6.7 billion in 1995.
The Dow industrials bounded higher as the Federal Reserve voted to keep monetary policy unchanged, allowing Wall Street to hurdle any lingering fears of a surprise tightening.
The blue chip index is within a stone's throw of the record close of 5778.00 on May 22.
Weakness in high-technology issues pressured the tech-studded Nasdaq Composite, off six to about 1125. But the broader market was firmer with gainers beating losers 6-5 on still paltry NYSE volume of about 336 million shares.
U.S. blue chips momentarily pared gains after the Fed news on a sell-program that wiped 12 points off the Dow, according to Birinyi Associates Inc.
"For a few seconds it looked like 'buy the rumor, sell the fact.' But then the Dow came back up and it's hard to find any index doing anything spectacular," said Joseph Barthel, chief investment strategist at Fahnestock & Co.
"It's a Dow-inspired rally...because of the liquidity factor, visibility and safety," he added.
Texaco added 5/8 to 89-3/4 and Exxon rose 1/4 to 83-3/4.
HBO & Co slumped 5-1/4 to 56-1/2 after Morgan Keegan started coverage of the stock with an underperform rating, a tarder said. The analyst and HBO officials were unavailable.
First Data fell 3-1/2 to 77-3/8. Morgan Stanley trimmed 1996 and 1997 estimates but maintained its outperform.
Capstar Hotel, a Washington, D.C.-based company that invests in and manages hotels nationwide, was unchanged at 18 in its Wall Street debut.
Griffin Gaming soared 7-1/8 to 19-3/8 after it agreed to merge with Sun International Hotels in a stock deal. Sun International fell 3-5/8 to 48-1/8. Donaldson Lufkin & Jenrette downgraded Sun to outperform from buy.
Among technology issues, Cisco Systems lost one to 55, 3Com lost 1-15/16 to 43 and Intel was off 1-1/4 to 79-1/2.
The Nasdaq Composite fell 6.24 to 1124.67.
The S&P 500 index fell 0.89 to 665.69.
Italian magistrates have asked parliament to decide if they can pursue judicial action against Umberto Bossi, firebrand leader of the separatist Northern League, political sources said on Tuesday.
Magistrates in the cities of Bergamo and Tolmezzo have sought a green light from parliament before they continue probes that could lead to a trial on charges of making threatening comments against political adversaries.
The magistrates want a parliamentary commission to decide if comments Bossi made at rallies were punishable or whether he has special protection as a member of parliament under an article of Italy's constitution.
The magistrates have investigated Bossi in connection with accusations of inciting people to commit crimes and making defamatory and threatening remarks during political rallies last year.
In both cases he threatened that League members would seek out and punish those who voted for the far-right National Alliance.
A parliamentary committee is due to rule by the end of next month if Bossi's remarks constitute a crime for which he could be tried or whether he enjoys special immunity as an MP, the sources said.
Bossi's supporters attacked the moves.
"These initiatives smack of pure fascism because they try to limit freedom of expression and thought," said Roberto Maroni, a former interior minister and leading member of the League.
They suggested there was a political agenda against the hot-tempered Bossi, whose League has set up a self-styled "parliament of the north" and wants independence from the rest of Italy.
Earlier this month, Bossi accused the secret services of plotting to discredit his movement and called for supporters to destroy television relay stations owned by national broadcaster RAI as a step towards forming an independent northern state.
The League, standing on a federalist ticket, showed strongly in last April's general election and won more than 30 percent of the vote in parts of the country as Bossi took advantage of widespread discontent over high taxation.
But since the vote, he has turned his back on federalism and now is pressing for full-blown secession for the wealthy north from the poorer south.
Hidden deep in the latest American Petroleum Institute's petroleum stocks survey released on Tuesday were early signs that U.S. refiners have stepped up distillate production to bolster heating oil inventories ahead of the winter heating season, analysts said Tuesday.
The industry trade group's weekly report on U.S. refining activity also confirmed reports that refinery runs at West Coast refineries were cut deeply by a power outage that struck several Western states last week, analysts said.
These are significant stories in the Nigerian press on Tuesday. Reuters has not verified these stories and does not vouch for their accuracy.
- Central bank is likely to carry out a phased release of stabilisation securities to merchant banks.
- Vacant slots in the Provisional Ruling Council, Nigeria's highest policy making body, may soon be filled.
- Eight firms from neighbouring Benin have been licensed to import fuel from Nigeria in a move to complement the anti-smuggling battle, Benin embassy officials said.
- Nigeria Airways and private Bellview Airlines sign agreement allowing Bellview to operate some of the state-run carrier's unutilised routes, to Bombay via Nairobi and also to Brazil.
- New port guidelines for the transfer of containers are stifling operations, Guardian investigations reveal.
- Nigerian Universal Reinsurance has been forced to look for business in Zambia, Tanzania and Zimbabwe because of economic gloom at home.
- Nigeria's only sheet glass manuafacturer, Oluwa Glass Company, says it can source 85 percent of its needs locally after acquiring a deposit for regular supplies of dolomite from Abuja. The company already has a silica sand deposit which can serve 60 percent of its needs.
- Central bank of Nigeria and Nigeria Deposit Insurance Corporation given until October 2 to move headquarters to Abuja.
- Poor maize harvest due to lack of fertilisers may lead to higher prices.
- Afribank avoids banking strike by reinstating six union leaders sacked two weeks ago.
This is a summary of revenue measures announced by Australian Treasurer Peter Costello in his Tuesday budget for the year to June 30, 1997.
The impact of each measure on the coming four fiscal years is also shown, in A$ millions, and the measures are ordered approximately by size.
expenditure will now be tax deductible at a maximum rate of 125 percent.
TARIFF CONCESSIONS. Election campaign announcement.
WITHHOLDING TAX AVOIDANCE. General provisions of the tax law's anti-avoidance provisions extended to withholding tax.
CAPITAL GAINS TAX. Certain anomalies removed.
MISCELLANEOUS TAX ANOMALIES.
TAX CRACKDOWN ON THE WEALTHY. Although the former government estimated A$800 million a year when it revealed this measure in the February election campaign, the forward estimates count just A$100 million from this measure in 1997/98. Future amounts are unknown at this stage, Treasury said in the budget papers.
					 -	 100	   ?	   ?
MEDICARE LEVY RISE FOR GUN BUY-BACK. Temporarily raised national health insurance charge to pay for forcible buy-back of self-loading weapons. Announced after the April Port Arthur massacre.
EXTENSION OF REPORTABLE PAYMENTS SYSTEM. Election campaign announcement.
MISCELLANEOUS REVENUE GAINS ANNOUNCED IN CAMPAIGN.
PERSONAL COMPUTERS. Crackdown on sales tax avoidance.
CHARITABLE TRUSTS. Election campaign announcement.
purposes.
OTHER TAX EXPENDITURES.
MEDICARE LEVY SURCHARGE FOR HIGH-INCOME EARNERS. The levy rises by one percentage for people on incomes over A$50,000 a year (or couples on more than A$100,000 a year).
COST RECOVERY AND DIVIDENDS.
OTHERS.
FAMILY TAX INITIATIVE. Includes higher tax thresholds for families with children, as promised in the election campaign. About half of the cost appears here. The remainder appears as social security on the spending side of the budget.
CAPITAL GAINS TAX FOR SMALL BUSINESS. Tax not payable if a small business is sold and the funds are reinvested in a similar business.
SUPERANNUATION AND RETIREMENT MEASURES.
PRIVATE HEALTH INSURANCE INCENTIVES. Benefits for low-income earners who take out private cover.
MISCELLANEOUS ELECTION COMMITMENTS.
expected to post a further profit rise in 1996.
Radica Games Ltd said Tuesday a federal judge has granted a summary judgment favoring the company and dismissed a 1994 class action securities lawsuit against the company.
The suit challenged the adequacy of disclosures in the company's May 13, 1994 prospectus. The judgment was issued by United States District Court Judge David Alan Ezra.
In his order granting the judgment, the judge wrote,  "... the statements in the Prospectus were neither false nor misleading on their own or in light of the information then available to the market," according to Radica.
Consumer rights crusader Ralph Nader was nominated on Monday as the Green Party's presidential candidate.
The nomination highlighted a Green Party conference, titled "Building Critical Mass -- Green Gather '96," held at the University of California at Los Angeles.
Nader is a potent consumer advocate who came to prominence 30 years ago for attacking automobile safety standards. He runs the Washington D.C.-based Centre for the Study of Responsive Law.
Around 400 audience members cheered "Go Ralph Go" and waved "Nader '96" placards at a campus auditorium, where Nader gave his acceptance speech. It came after an afternoon meeting in which Green Party representatives from 30 states formally nominated him.
"He's currently on 12 (state) ballots and we expect to have him on 30," said Michael Feinstein, a Green Party spokesman. He expects another 15 states to make Nader a write-in candidate for the Nov. 5 election.
"All but four states have a write-in process," he said.
Nader's previous bid for the presidency came in 1992, when he ran as an Independent in the New Hampshire primary.
"The pressure to exploit the consumers and workers continues," Nader said.
He urged greater consumer control of utilities, health insurance and television programming. "We're the landlords of the public airwaves," he said, denouncing television as an "electronic molester."
He repeatedly criticised large corporations for weakening democracy and degrading the national culture.
"In the last twenty we have had an extraordinary concentration of power and wealth in fewer and fewer global corporations," Nader said.
In the political arena, he called for 12-year term limits and publicly funded elections.
Responding to criticism that he was stealing the Democratic Party's votes, he said "We're sick of being told we have to chose between the bad and the worse."
Mobil Corp's Australian subsidiary said on Tuesday that Gippsland crude oil was still being piped to Shell Australia Ltd despite earlier statements by Mobil that it was taking proportionally more Gippsland crude to entirely offset Shell's normal intake.
"It's not a total offset. They're (Shell) still getting some (Gippsland crude)," a Mobil spokeswoman told Reuters.
Shell Australia has reduced its crude oil intake due to a strike over work practices which has reduced production at its Geelong refinery and stopped distribution from its shipping and Lara LPG terminals.
A Shell spokesman was not immediately available for comment.
Mobil earlier said its Altona refinery in Melbourne had switched to 100 percent Gippsland crude input from its usual practice of supplementing Gippsland crude intake with imports. Mobil has sold a crude oil cargo that it ordered two months ago.
Novell Inc, saying its future growth and survival is at stake, launched an aggressive push into the Intranet market by introducing IntranetWare, a network platform adapted from Novell's NetWare network operating system to fully open standards for operating corporate Intranets.
Consequently, Novell has been perceived in the market as out-of-the-loop as the tide of corporate interest in developing Internet-like Intranets has swept through the business world this year.
With IntranetWare, which will be generally available in October, Novell will be shipping a whole series of Intranet applications and network management tools, including a NetWare Web server, a fast server which integrates Novell's existing Directory Services product, GroupWise 5.0 a messaging and collaboration application, and ManageWise 2.1 an Intranet network management solution.
NetWare has about 55 million users and has been a market leader among corporate networking platforms.
But analysts have said Novell stood to lose that distinction if it did not move into the Intranet direction.
International Data Corp analyst Mark Levitt said Novell would face too much of a risk if it did not answer the market demand for Intranet products.
Indeed, Markman said many customers have asked Novell to make its network products Intranet based.
Some analysts said Novell customers have had to wait a year for direction from Novell about how to migrate from NetWare to an Intranet network and relied on others meanwhile.
"The market is ripe for Intranet solutions and I think they've hit the needs right on. People are going to be more accepting of an Intranet solution from a company with a large installed base like Novell," said Ron Rappaport, research associate at Zona Research.
"The question is are they late."
Markman maintained that Novell is not late, saying that customers are just now figuring out what Intranets are.
Japan will provide Bangladesh a credit worth 10.943 billion yen to finance modernisation of the country's southern Chittagong airport, the official BSS news agency on Tuesday.
It said an agreement for the loan, which carries one percent interest and is repayable in 30 years, was signed in Tokyo on Tuesday.
Bangladesh is developing Chittagong into an international airport to cater to increased traffic resulting from inflow of foreign investments into the Chittagong Export Processing Zone, the agency said.
NOTE: The above share primaries are earnings (loss) per common share primary and fully diluted shares as well.
Swedish mining company Trelleborg AB reports for the six months to June 30, 1996 compared with a year ago.
NOTE -- Trelleborg AB is a Swedish mining and minerals group.
A Reuters poll found analysts expected the company to report a profit after financial items and costs of 700 million crowns.
Shares of construction firm Vioter will trade ex-rights on Tuesday, the Athens stock exchange said in a statement.
Vioter will proceed with a 638 million drachma rights issue. It will issue 1,277,961 new registered shares at 500 a share. Rights entitle shareholders to two new shares for every 10 outstanding.
Vioter's new total of outstanding shares will rise to 7,667,767, the bourse said.
World Food Programme officials said on Tuesday the Bangladesh government planned commercial imports of 100,000 tonnes of soft wheat for November shipment.
"But the purchase may be delayed if the present high price of wheat in the international market continues," one said.
The officials said Bangladesh's private traders were also expected to import 50,000 tonnes of rice and 10,000 tonnes of wheat for shipment in November.
Finance Ministry officials said Bangladesh had received food aid commitments of 124,000 tonnes of wheat for fiscal year 1996/97 which started on July 1. Some 23,000 tonnes of this wheat aid would be provided by the United States under an agreement signed on August 7, one said.
The officials said the European Union would grant Bangladesh 40,000 tonnes of wheat aid this year. They gave no other details.
Daishinku Corp said on Tuesday that it planned to boost output of crystal devices used in mobile phones in the business year starting April 1, 1997, to cope with robust demand.
It is planning to boost production at its plant in Tottori Prefecture, western Japan, a company spokesman said.
"We are planning to boost output in view of growing sales of mobile phones, especially PHSs," the spokesman said.
The Japanese economic daily Nihon Keizai Shimbun said on Tuesday that investment for Daishinku's planned production expansion would be about five billion yen.
The expansion is expected to boost Daishinku's annual sales by five to eight billion yen, the paper said.
The company spokesman declined to confirm the figures in the Nihon Keizai report.
Daishinku posted parent sales of 31.24 billion yen in 1995/96.
Highest and lowest price earnings ratios for Australian companies included in the 320-company All Ordinaries Index based on closing prices on Tuesday. P/E based on rolling 12 months earnings.
A split within Cambodia's secretive Khmer Rouge rebel group offers the biggest chance for peace in years but has ruffled feathers within the nation's strained coalition government, analysts said on Tuesday.
"The bottom line is that everyone in government is looking at how the Khmer Rouge can enhance their own interests. Everybody wants a slice of the Khmer Rouge," said one analyst, adding the rebel dissidents were also seen as election assets.
"The Khmer Rouge becomes like a mercenary army. They (have) become a prized possession," said an Asian diplomat.
Second Prime Minister Hun Sen of the formerly communist Cambodian People's Party (CPP) was quick to make the most out of the announcements by former top Khmer Rouge leader Ieng Sary and two senior commanders that they had split from the hardliners.
The co-premier on Friday said Ieng Sary, who was sentenced to death in absentia for his role in the deaths of more than one million people under the 1975-79 Khmer Rouge regime, must be protected and his past put aside in the interests of peace.
First Prime Minister Prince Norodom Ranariddh, who heads the royalist FUNCINPEC party in an uneasy alliance with the CPP, has said Hun Sen's announcement on August 8 of thousands of defections in two key northwest rebel bases was premature.
He said on Saturday that any decision to allow Ieng Sary back into the national fold could not be taken by the prime ministers, but should be up to the members of parliament who had unanimously outlawed the group in 1994 after peace talks failed.
Analysts said Hun Sen seemed to have realised he had jumped the gun as he met Ranariddh on the weekend and agreed they must work out a common strategy and handle the issue in accordance with the constitution and law.
His gesture has helped, at least temporarily, to prevent the Khmer Rouge split from widening the rift between FUNCINPEC and CPP, which began in March when Ranariddh threatened to leave the government if the CPP refused to cede royalists more power to royalists .
Hun Sen warned that he would use force to prevent any attempt to break up the government and parliament and while the war of words has abated in recent weeks, suspicion, resentment and anger still lingers beneath the surface, analysts said.
The second premier's handling of the dissident Khmer Rouge guerrillas and apparently extra-legal promises of protection and rehabilitation had threatened to further torpedo relations between the coalition parnters.
"He wants to take (the credit) for his own advantage," a senior royalist said after Hun Sen's announced the defections.
"It is a delicate affair and we must not be happy before killing the tiger...let them get under our control first," he told Reuters. "Do you believe that if the CPP (alone) invited them to come that they will come?"
Hun Sen has since acknowledged the key role being played by FUNCINPEC commanders, who were once allied with the Khmer Rouge.
One analyst said Hun Sen might have hoped that by embracing Ieng Sary he would be able to claim the allegiance of his own group of Khmer Rouge defectors and counter rebels who agreed to join the royalists in the northwest province of Siem Reap.
"In politics there are no permanent friends, there are permanent interests," he said, adding that if Hun Sen managed to get his way over Ieng Sary, Ranariddh would be finished, but "If this backfires, Hun Sen will be in trouble."
Several analysts believed the ultimate goal was to boost standing ahead of the next polls. "This is the road to the 1998 elections, to the one real premiership," he said.
He warned that the Khmer Rouge should not be underestimated and added that if all sides approached the developments from a national interest the outlaws would be finished.
"I'm not convinced yet if we are united...if we are it's a happy ending story for Cambodia."
These are the leading stories in the Turkish press on Tuesday. Reuters has not verified these stories and does not vouch for their accuracy.
- Opposition Motherland Party (ANAP) leader Yilmaz causes confusion ahead of the ANAP annual conference by saying those with different views should form different parties.
- Exporters call for a realistic exchange rate to help boost exports.
- Islamist premier Erbakan wants to reopen investigation of a plane crash in 1993 in which the head of the gendarmerie died.
- Two major unions agree joint action to protest against criticism of workers by Deputy Prime Minister Ciller.
- New casino regulations, restricting opening hours and introducing a dress code, have reduced the number of gamblers and casino revenues.
- Istanbul faces a hard winter with inadequate amounts of natural gas to meet the rising number of subscribers.
- Foreign investment in Turkey has began to decrease in the last two years while investment in emerging markets generally increases.
- Bus companies, leaving travellers stranded, continue to boycott the coach station in the major resort of Antalya in protest at the level of fees for using the station.
Drug use among teenagers more than doubled from 1992 to 1995, a federal study said on Tuesday, prompting Republican charges that the Clinton administration was to blame.
Much of the increase was due to big jumps in the percentage of 12- to 17-year-olds who said they had used marijuana in the past month. Drug experts call marijuana, the most commonly used illicit drug, a "gateway" to harder drugs such as cocaine.
In 1995, the rate of past month use of drugs by such teenagers rose to 10.9 percent, more than twice the 5.3 percent low point reached in 1992, the Health and Human Services Department's 1995 National Household Survey on Drug Abuse showed. The survey put the total number of 12- to 17-year-olds at 22.2 million.
In presenting the findings, Health Secretary Donna Shalala took pains to emphasise that youth attitudes toward marijuana began changing as early as 1990 during the administration of Republican President George Bush.
"What we are seeing is ... a multi-year trend that began before we came to Washington, before this administration came to Washington, this trend began, but it continues today," she said at a joint outdoor news conference at a local Boys and Girls Club meant to dramatise the dangers of drugs to youth.
Republican presidential candidate Bob Dole, campaigning in Louisville, Kentucky, called the report's findings "nothing short of a national tragedy" and said he would make the war on drugs the "priority No. 1 once again."
"The statistics confirm an upward spiral of drug abuse across the nation since President Clinton took office," Sen. Orrin Hatch, a Utah Republican who chairs the Senate Judiciary Committee, said in a letter to the White House.
White House spokesman Mike McCurry said Clinton has focused much attention on the drug problem and would continue to do so.
"This is something the president talks about regularly and has identified as an area that he wants to work on personally," he told reporters.
McCurry rejected Republican charges that Clinton's initial cuts in the office of drug policy had exacerbated the problem.
Although drug abuse began rising sharply in the early 1990s, it remains way down from the 16.3 percent peak reached in 1979 among adolescents. That year, which was the peak for illicit drug use, rates were 38 percent for those aged 18-25, 20.8 percent for ages 26-34 and 2.8 percent for 35 and over.
In contrast, in 1995, the percentage of adults reporting past month drug use were 14.2 percent for those 18-25; 8.3 percent for those 26-34; and 2.8 percent, the same as in 1979, for those age 35 and older, the survey showed.
McCurry said he believed the administration's plan to fight drugs was on the right track. "We think it's the right strategy to control use, to control imports," he said. "Above all, this has to be a bipartisan effort that all join into."
Jim Copple, president of the Community Anti-Drug Coalitions of America, said blame should be shared by Republicans and Democrats for cutting funds for drug control programmes and losing interest in the issue.
The ministry said July results brought the year-to-date trade gap to $630 million, versus a deficit of $4.226 billion in the January-July period of 1995.
It said that the July exports were 11.36 percent higher than in July a year ago, and represented the highest export figure ever recorded in that month.
Imports were up 19.8 percent over July 1995, it said.
In July 1995, Brazil posted a $3.0 million trade surplus.
Lyonnaise des Eaux said that it had won, in association with Turkey's BTP Enka, Turkey's first international tender for running a water distribution and purification service.
Lyonnaise des Eaux and Enka won a 10-year contract to run the water service of Antalya, with 530,000 inhabitants, over competition by Saur, North West Engineering and Thames Water.
Lyonnaise said the water service would have sales in the first year of $7.0 million.
It did not detail the investment needed but said the project fell within a bigger World Bank and European Investment Bank investment project.
Rules drawn up for forthcoming elections in Gambia are obviously flawed and will result in the small west African country's military leaders strengthening their grip on power, the Commonwealth said on Tuesday.
Gambia's military rulers last week lifted a two-year ban on all political activity but barred the country's three main parties and senior politicians who held office in former civilian administrations from contesting presidential elections on September 26 and parliamentary elections on December 11.
A statement issued by Zimbabwean Foreign Minister Stan Mudenge, chairman of the eight-nation Commonwealth Ministerial Action Group (CMAG), said the curbs were of grave concern and would create an uneven political playing field.
"CMAG remains ready to continue to assist the transitional process but it clearly cannot be expected to endorse a process which is obviously flawed and which is likely to lead to the consolidation of military rule in another form," Mudenge said.
"I therefore appeal to the authorities in Banjul to rescind this blanket ban proscription in the interest of a credible and durable democracy in The Gambia," he added.
CMAG was set up by Commonwealth heads of government at their last summit in New Zealand last November to deal with serious and persistent violation of the basic principles of the group, which links Britain to its former colonies.
NOTE - Full company name is Mayr-Melnhof Karton AG.
InfoSpace Inc said on Tuesday that its People, Business, and Email directories will be available on  Unwired Planet's wireless products.
InfoSpace said Unwired Planet has teamed with AT&T Corp, GTE Corp's GTE Mobilnet, Bell Atlantic Corp, and NYNEX Corp's NYNEX Mobile unit, among others, to allow customers to use cellular phones and pagers to obtain information stored on the Internet.
The phones and pagers would display a variety of information from InfoSpace's directories to make it easier for users to locate people, businesses, and e-mail addresses on the Internet.
The Bank of Japan (BOJ) injected a net 500 billion yen into the money market on Tuesday, money traders said.
Following are details of EU grain export/import commitments between July 1 and August 6 of the new 1996/97 (July/June) campaign supplied by member country officials.
Since the figures were drawn up, the EU has granted exports of 94,250 tonnes of soft wheat, 3,675 tonnes of barley and 2,500 tonnes of oats.
Figures ('000 tonnes) are based on officially communicated certificates and are subject to revision.
The United States stepped forward on Tuesday to reveal that two of its fighter jets, not Japanese planes, flew close to a Qantas passenger aircraft off Japan 12 days ago.
The acknowledgement came after Australian Broadcasting Corp (ABC) reported that Qantas flight 22 from Tokyo to Sydney was tailed by Japanese military aircraft off Japan's Pacific coast on August 8.
"Two U.S. Navy F/A-18 'Hornet' fighter aircraft flew below and came no closer than 1,200 feet to a Qantas Airlines 747 at 11.54 a.m., Aug. 8, 20 miles northeast of Japan's Miyake-jima," the U.S. military command said in a statement released in Tokyo.
"The 1,200 foot separation is within authorised International Civil Aviation Organisation procedures, and regarded by ICAO standards as both safe and acceptable," the statement said.
The two fighter aircraft were flying on the edge of a designated military training area below the Qantas 747, the statement said.
ABC radio reported that the pilot on the Qantas aircraft saw on his radar two fighters--which he identified as Japanese planes--tracking the Boeing 747, forcing him to pull the plane into a steep ascent to avoid an incident.
Commenting on the report, Japanese air force officials said there was no record of its fighters scrambling or taking emergency steps on that date and that there are no Japanese air force training zones along the route from Tokyo to Sydney.
Japan's Ministry of Transportation said it had received a request from its Australian counterpart to investigate what the ministry called the "approach" of two fighters toward the Qantas jet, but said it was unable to confirm the origin of the planes.
The Qantas captain filed a report complaining of the intimidating behaviour of the fighter jets, ABC radio said.
		 7968.
Dutch seasonally adjusted manufacturing production rose 2.9 percent in June compared with May, the Central Bureau of Statistics (CBS) said.
June manufacturing production was 4.7 percent higher than in June 1995.
The CBS said the 4.7 percent year-on-year increase for June was the biggest rise for any month since June 1995 when there was a year-on-year increase of 5.0 percent.
Manufacturing production for the second quarter of 1996 was 3.5 percent higher than in the same period of 1995. Production for the first quarter was up 1.5 percent year-on-year.
Manufacturing production for the whole of 1995 showed an increase of 2.8 percent over 1994.
NOTE - Economists' consensus forecast for June manufacturing production was for a rise of 2.5 per cent versus June 1995.
Comalco New Zealand Ltd, the country's largest single user of electricity, will contend that the proposed electricity market rules are biased towards generators when it presents its submission to the anti-trust Commerce Commission on Wednesday, a company official said.
"For a start it's very biased towards the generators. The voting structure (for determining the rules) allows generators to vote on the purchaser side as well."
Comalco NZ is a unit of aluminium producer Comalco Ltd. The Commerce Commission hearing is on proposed rules for the competitive wholesale electricity market due to be launched on October 1.
Voting on the rules was split into separate generator and purchaser classes, with larger players receiving a proportionately greater number of votes, although a maximum cap was applied.
Comalco says in its submission that 60 percent of the purchaser class in number were against the rules.
"Over 90 percent of the purchaser class who favoured the rules were also registered generators," Comalco says.
Comalco also contends that the rules have the effect of increasing the likelihood of gaming -- generators acting unilaterally to push market prices above the competitive level. "There's the potential for gaming, and if you look at what's happened in the U.K, you can see clear examples of gaming," said Anderson. "I'm not saying that gaming's going to happen, but there is certainly the potential for it."
"I'm opposed to the fact that on an ex post basis you may not know the price of the commodity you're taking until after the event -- that doesn't seem right to me.
"I think, to be fair, the generator has got a product to offer, and the demand side should be able to decide before the event whether or not they want to take it."
Comalco will present its submission to the Commerce Commission at 10.45 a.m. on Wednesday, the final day of the three-day conference.
Striking miners at the RTZ-CRA RTZ. Blair Athol coal mine in central Queensland were meeting on Tuesday to hear a recommendation that they return to work, a Blair Athol coal spokesman said.
"As a result of talks, a meeting has been called by union officials to put a proposal to miners that recommends a return to work," general manager, operations at Blair Athol Coal, Rod Bates told Reuters.
Union officials were not available for comment.
The return-to-work proposal also recommended that the issue of training on a new drill be put to arbitration, Bates said.
"I'm very hopeful they (the coal miners) will return to work tomorrow," Bates said. The workers have been on strike for 5-1/2 weeks over the issue of training on the drill and other matters.
The strike is despite a return-to-work order from the Australian Industrial Relations Commission (AIRC).
The AIRC has convened a meeting of Construction, Forestry, Mining and Energy Union (CFMEU) members at Blair Athol for Wednesday to hear admissions on a return to work, Bates said.
Bates said the strike was costing A$10 million a week in lost production from Australia's biggest thermal coal mine.
Blair Athol produces 10 million tonnes annually with the bulk of production shipped to Japanese customers.
The first shipment of goods for Jordan via Israel has reached the northern port of Haifa, Israel's customs authority said on Tuesday.
The shipment follows a peace treaty signed between the two countries in 1994 and a series of agreements governing trade and transport.
An Israeli customs spokeswoman said the shipment of lumber will be loaded onto a Jordanian truck which crossed the border into Israel earlier on Tuesday. Israeli customs officials accompanied the truck from the border to the port and will accompany it back to the crossing.
The spokeswoman said many more such shipments were expected and the stringent customs and security measures were likely to be relaxed with time.
This is a summary of spending measures announced by Australian Treasurer Peter Costello in his Tuesday budget for the year to June 30, 1997.
The impact of each measure on the coming four fiscal years is also shown, in A$ millions and with a minus sign indicating additional spending. The measures are ordered roughly by size.
LABOUR MARKET PROGRAMMES. Less funds allocated and the system will be condensed into fewer programmes.
STATES' CONTRIBUTIONS. The temporary cut in states' grants announced at the Premiers' Conference and Loans Council.
PATHOLOGY. Spending capped with entitlements to be varied as necessary.
CHILDCARE. Tighter targetting, for example reduced assistance for more than 50 hours a week.
HIGHWAY SPENDING. Cut.
AUSTUDY. Tighter eligibility for student support.
STUDENT CHARGES. Higher payments under the Higher Education Contributions Scheme for certain courses.
TWO-PERCENT RUNNING COSTS REDUCTION. This includes the reduced public service staffing levels.
EXTENDED WAITING PERIOD FOR MIGRANT SOCIAL SECURITY.
AGED AND COMMUNITY CARE. Various reforms, including an income test for some benefits.
DEVELOPMENT IMPORT FINANCE FACILITY. A form of overseas business aid, now abolished.
UNEMPLOYMENT BENEFITS CRACKDOWN. Further efforts to ensure claimants are looking for work.
EXPORT MARKET DEVELOPMENT GRANT. Expenditure capped.
OFFICE OF EMPLOYMENT ADVOCATE. An institution under the new industrial relations system.
NATIONAL FIREARMS PROGRAMME. To buy back self-loading guns.
FAMILY TAX INITIATIVE. About half of the initiative appears here as spending. The remainder is on the revenue side of the budget.
SCIENCE FUNDING. Extra for the government's CSIRO.
Tylan General Inc said Monday it is exploring the possible sale of the company and added it has already received some inquiries from potential buyers.
Tylan Chairman, President and Chief Executive David Ferran said the company was considering making an acquisition proposal with Don Whitson, the vice chairman and chief administrative officer.
The company has set up a committee of directors to oversee the process. Goldman, Sachs & Co has been retained as its financial adviser.
The company said there is no assurance that an acquisition proposal would be received or that a satisfactory agreement could be negotiated.
Tylan supplies process-management equipment around the world.
Brazil's central bank bought dollars at 1.0140 reais per dollar in the buy auction in the commercial foreign exchange market, dealers said.
Inco Ltd and Diamond Fields Resources Inc said on Tuesday a court approved a settlement deal reached with the plaintiffs in the Texas lawsuit filed on May 14 and that the court has entered a judgment and order dismissing that lawsuit.
Inco and Diamond Fields said they expect to close Inco's C$4.3 billion acquisition of Diamond Fields on August 21.
These are some of the main stories in Sofia newspapers today. Reuters has not verified these stories and does not vouch for their accuracy.
-- An International Monetary Fund mission is expected to arrive in Bulgaria this week to review the progress of its reform programme within a funding agreement approved in July, the IMF Sofia representative Franek Rozwadowski said.
--  Fuel prices are expected to rise by some 15-20 percent from September 1 due to a fall of the national currency, the lev, on the local forex market, the National Price Commission said.
-- The State Fund for Reconstruction and Development will cover credits to the cash-strapped National Electricity Company to secure sorely needed funding, finance minister Dimitar Kostov said after a closed-door cabinet meeting.
-- Some 40 percent of Bulgarian hotels are expected to be privatised by the end of this year, Tourism Commitee chairman Vassil Velev said.
-- The State Savings Bank (SSB), the second largest credit institution in the country, which holds most of citizens' lev deposits, posted a 4.733 billion levs profit for the first half of the year, SSB chairman Bistra Dimitrova said.
-- Germany's tourist operator Neckerman is expected to invest in Bulgaria some five million marks by the end of next year for reconstruction of hotels along the Black Sea coast, a visiting company official said.
-- The government postponed the planned closure of the Pleven-based Plama oil refinery for four months in the hope of finding a buyer for the indebted facility. The liquidation procedure is to be reopened if no buyer appears, the cabinet decided at an extraordinary meeting.
-- Sofia airport ground engineers threatened a strike if the airport management raises only the salaries of air traffic controllers, trade unions said.
- The construction of the Butinge oil terminal is strangled by politics and competition. The Lithuanian foreign ministry wants an official explanation from Latvia on Indulis Emsis, the minister for environment protection and regional development, who said that to start construction on the oil terminal in the Baltic sea the agreement of Latvia might be necessary.
- Defence Minister Linas Linkevicius submitted his application to the central election commission to be an independent candidate in October's elections. Linkevicius earlier this year defected from the ruling Lithuanian Democratic Labour Party (LDLP).
- The jeep which belongs to one of the suspected leaders of Vilnius Brigade criminal group Viaceslav Zaboronok, nicknamed Kozlik, was blown up in Vilnius Monday morning. Zaboronok was shot two weeks ago and police experts forecast a mob war in the capital.
- The LDLP abandoned its plans to initiate a referendum and gain more powers for the president.
- The Christian Democratic Party announced its election programme, suggesting a differentiated tax system under which those who earn more than 3,000 litas would pay 45 percent tax.
- The Savings Bank has closed 43 branches and 47 agencies this year.
- The stock exchange recorded the highest share price yet for leading commercial bank Vilniaus Bankas, whose shares reached 850 litas at the last session on Thursday.
- Russian gas firm Gazprom has threatened to raise the price of natural gas if Lithuania does not pay off its debts.
- The ruling Lithuanian Democratic Labour Party thinks it is necessary to arrange a referendum to set a permanent date for parliament elections, cut the number of members of parliament and to allow agricultural cooperatives to own land.
- A delegation from influential securities house J.P. Morgan arrived for a two-day visit to Lithuania.
- The central bank registered the statues of the new Bank of Industry and giant fertiliser plant Achema was allowed to acquire control over it. The share capital of the bank is planned at 20 million litas.
- The most important thing in creating the new national oil company Lietuvos Nafta is to ensure the decisive influence of the state in the firm, Energy Minister Saulius Kutas told a news conference. He confirmed Russia's Lukoil was amongst the firms interested in buying into the company but no investor will be allowed to buy more than 33 percent of it.
- Share portfolios of 0.09 to 18.76 percent of state-owned companies will be put up for auction at the stock exchange on August 26 and 28.
- The government should make its final decision on whether to declare the troubled Vakaru Bank bankrupt or not tomorrow.
- Mazheikiu Nafta oil refinery expects the government to allow it to take a further $9.5 million loan from Merrill Lynch.
ValuJet Inc. said it began two-days of federal safety "proving runs" Tuesday, in hopes of getting a regulatory green light to resume scheduled flights this week.
The discount carrier, which suspended operations in June amid a series of alleged safety violations and after a deadly crash, also has recalled 70 pilots and 100 flight attendants to staff flights to five cities in the event that ValuJet receives final approval from the Federal Aviation Administration.
FAA inspectors Tuesday morning began putting a McDonnell Douglas DC-9 and two ValuJet crews through various flight exercises, including emergency procedures, said airline spokesman Gregg Kenyon. A ValuJet DC-9 crew consists of a pilot, a co-pilot and three flight attendants.
The proving runs were scheduled to continue through Wednesday afternoon. Kenyon declined to discuss the number of flights or cities involved.
In recent days, ValuJet put the same DC-9 aircraft through a series of test flights between Atlanta and Washington in preparation for the proving runs.
"They will run through a variety of flight situations with FAA personnel on board, including some emergency scenarios," Kenyon said.
ValuJet suspended operations after the May 11 crash of Flight 592, which killed 110 people in the Florida Everglades. Maintenance was not identified as a contributing factor. But the crash led the FAA to step up safety inspections, which in turn led to the suspension.
The low-cost carrier, once a dream for Wall Street investors but a nightmare for big carriers such as Delta Air Lines Inc., now must prove its ability to meet the terms of an FAA consent order, under which the proving runs were taking place.
ValuJet hopes to resume flights Friday but cannot do so without FAA approval.
"We're sitting at a red light, waiting for it to turn green," Kenyon said when asked to characterise the airline's situation.
ValuJet wants to resume operations with seven planes and flights to five cities.
In preparation for that day, pilots and flight attendants have already begun attending retraining programmes developed to meet the consent order.
Between 175 and 200 registration agents and 145 customer service representatives also have been notified that they could start work soon if the Transportation Department allows the airline to begin selling tickets and advertising flight service.
ValuJet stock was unchanged Tuesday afternoon, trading at $10.875 on Nasdaq.
-- Morgan Stanley analyst David Togut said he reduced the earnings estimates for First Data Corp, citing the company becoming "modestly more conservative" on near-term and intermediate-term earnings growth potential.
-- also cited lower-than-expected growth at its Western Union international business; further delays in Act III, its healthcare claims processing system; slower-than-expected sales at its First Image business; and tighter lending stadnards from credit-card issuers.
-- Togut said managers remain confident of a 20 percent EPS growth target.
-- reduced his earnings estimate to $2.72 per share from $2.75 for 1996, and to $3.25 from $3.35 for 1997.
-- kept his rating at outperform.
Note: SI Diamond Technology Inc is company's full name.
Dark northern spring and soft white wheat values were steady to weaker in subdued activity as dealers noted very little movement.
"It is quiet," one Minnesota dealer said, adding that more cars were picking up newly harvested spring wheat from North Dakota and that the number of receipts had also increased.
MGE spring wheat futures closed mixed with September unchanged at $4.65 a bushel.
The Bank of England offered the UK money market an early round of assistance after forecasting a liquidity shortage of around 1.3 billion stg.
The Bank invited money market operators to offer band 1 and 2 bills and offered an unrestricted bill/floating rate gilt repo to September 4 and 5.
Two miners were killed on Monday night in a rockfall at Free State Consolidated Mines' Ltd (Freegold)'s Western Holdings No 9 shaft, mine managers Anglo American Corp said.
Anglo said in a statement that the rockfall took place on 45 level, about 1,400 metres below surface.
Russia's acting commander in Chechnya, General Konstantin Pulikovsky, vowed on Tuesday to drive Chechen rebels from the capital Grozny and said he would use aircraft and heavy artillery to do it.
But rebel chief-of-staff, Aslan Maskhadov appealed to Kremlin security supremo Alexander Lebed to prevent Pulikovsky's troops from using force to sweep his separatist fighters from the battered city.
Interfax news agency quoted Maskhadov as saying President Boris Yeltsin's special envoy in Chechnya should "use all of his influence to stop the approaching madness".
Pulikovsky told Interfax news agency: "Grozny will without fail be cleared of rebel fighters."
"We do not intend to put up with the brazen and barbaric actions of illegal groups who are continuing to shoot down our helicopters, carry out bold acts of sabotage and surround Russian servicemen."
The rebels, who seek independence for their mountainous Caucasus territory, swept into Grozny on August 6, seizing key buildings and trapping Russian soldiers in their checkpoints and in the central government complex.
Pulikovsky on Monday gave civilians 48 hours to leave before he unleashes an all-out bombardment and he added on Tuesday that the situation could only be resolved by force.
Itar-Tass news agency quoted Pulikovsky as saying artillery had already opened up in Grozny with "pinpoint strikes" against the rebels, although aviation was not being used.
Pulikovsky's views are in sharp contrast with those of Lebed, who has been talking to rebel leaders and opposes the use of aircraft.
Lebed won guarded approval from rebel leaders in two visits to Chechnya last week. His spokesman told Tass on Monday, before the army threat, that Lebed opposed bombing.
"Aerial bombardment as a military method of settling the problem, even with the evacuation of civilians, will lead only to widening the conflict zone," the spokesman, Alexander Barkhatov, quoted Lebed as saying.
Russian helicopters, used in recent days for rocket attacks om Grozny, dropped leaflets over the city on Tuesday containing Pulikovsky's warning.
In the leaflets the general accused the guerrillas of using a ceasefire to dig in and maintain an offensive to try to win the 20-month-old war by force.
"On expiry of this deadline, I maintain my right to use all the forces and means available, including bombers and ground-attack aircraft, and also multiple rocket launchers and artillery to strike at the guerrillas' positions," he said.
Pulikovsky, who met Maskhadov twice last week to arrange the latest shaky truce, said he was sure of the backing of Russia's leaders. He said he was acting "in the interests of the state".
The Kremlin and the army have sounded different notes on Chechnya in the past. Yeltsin, trying to end the war before the presidential election in July, ordered a halt to an offensive in March, but the generals continued bombarding Chechen villages.
Yeltsin won a lull with a ceasefire in May, but shortly after his re-election the army went on the offensive again and the rebels say that provoked their raid on Grozny.
Rebel leaders have frequently complained that there is a "party of war" in the Kremlin which is overruling peace efforts.
Lebed's appointment in June was followed by the ejection of leading Kremlin hawks. But a deeply tired Yeltsin, who has been out of sight for weeks, has so far refused Lebed's latest demand, that he sack Interior Minister General Anatoly Kulikov.
South African Justice Minister Dullah Omar on Tuesday supported the aims of a Moslem vigilante movement that publicly killed an alleged drug baron, but warned that opposition to crime was not a licence to kill.
"I want to make it very, very clear that those who fight drug trafficking, those who fight gangsterism, are our allies," he told parliament during an often-heated special debate on the Moslem movement People Against Gangsterism and Drugs (Pagad).
But Omar, himself a Moslem, warned he would not tolerate actions such as the murder of alleged drug baron Rashaad Staggie, co-leader with his twin brother Rashied of the Hard Livings gang.
"Fundamentally, the thousands of people who support Pagad and who have taken part in their campaign and who want to rid our country of drug trafficking are our allies.
"We need to ensure that we fight together with our allies to rid our country of drug-trafficking and gangsterism. This does not mean that we condone people taking the law into their own hands," he said.
Staggie, 40, was shot and burned in front of police and television crews earlier this month. Pagad leader Nadthmie Edries has been charged with sedition related to the killing.
Omar said he would meet Safety and Security Minister Sydney Mufamadi and other security chiefs later on Tuesday to draft an anti-crime strategy to go before the cabinet on Wednesday.
He declined to say what measures were being considered, but Mufamadi told parliament he planned separately to invoke special measures including a ban on guns at demonstrations.
Mufamadi said he had ordered an investigation of reports that known gangsters, many with criminal records, owned licensed firearms.
In addition, he said he planned to bring in a specialist unit that successfully reduced the rate of car hijackings around Johannesburg to Cape Town to investigate the government's long-term failure to prosecute gangsters.
The Staggie killing focused the nation's attention on crime by gangs and Pagad has since spawned similar movements in most major cities.
A week after Staggie was killed, police and armed Pagad supporters clashed in Cape Town's mixed-race Athlone district when riot units travelling in armoured trucks halted a march on the homes of alleged drug dealers.
A Moslem taxi driver was killed in what Pagad members believe was a revenge attack by gangs and a Moslem-owned shop was torched.
On Saturday, vigilantes cornered a drug dealer and doused him with petrol. A witness told Reuters the dealer was not set alight only because his Pagad attacker spilled petrol on himself and did not dare to light a match.
Huntsman Corp. on Tuesday dropped its $460 million bid for Rexene Corp. after being spurned twice by the Dallas-based chemical firm.
Huntsman, which is the largest privately held chemical company in the country, also said it would not pursue a hostile tender offer for Rexene -- a move that had been anticipated by some Wall Street takeover traders.
"I'm washing my hands of the entire matter. Huntsman Corp. is not interested in pursuing further negotiations nor in commencing an unsolicited tender offer at this time. It is simply not worth the aggravation," said Jon Huntsman, chief executive officer and chairman of the family-owned company based in Salt Lake City.
Huntsman said the decision came after Rexene financial adviser Schroder-Wertheim indicated the Rexene board would reject bids substantially above its $15 per share offer.
Huntsman's first bid of $14 per share was rejected by Rexene on July 22. It then sweetened the offer to $15 per share on Aug. 1, but Rexene rejected that bid as well.
The unsolicited bid also included the assumption of $175 million of debt.
Rexene did not have any immediate comment on Huntsman's decision.
But Rexene's stock, which had risen sharply from about $9 per share after Huntsman first launched its bid, tumbled $2 to $10.50 in after-hours trading on news Huntsman was dropping the offer. Huntsman made its announcement after the market closed.
Huntsman blasted Rexene's rejection of its offer and warned that the cyclical chemical industry is already seeing a decline in margins and prices. In spurning the offer, Rexene said shareholder value would be boosted by its strategic investment plan, which includes additional capacity and the expansion of product offerings.
"In my opinion, Rexene's shareholders won't see our offering in the value of Rexene stock for years to come. The shareholders should be very disappointed," Huntsman said.
The move marks the second time in recent months that Huntsman, long known for successful acquisitions, failed to win a target company.
Huntsman launched a bid for Sterling Chemicals Inc. in April, but the effort failed when the target instead opted for a management and investor buyout.
In 1994, Huntsman doubled its size when it acquired Texaco Inc.'s chemical business for $850 million.
Strong growth in express traffic was the major factor in global air cargo traffic handled at Brussels International Airport increasing by 6.5 percent last month on July 1995 to 36,458 tonnes, airport authority figures showed.
July 1996 express traffic handled at Belgium's main gateway totalled 18,714 tonnes, up 24.7 percent on the same month last year.
DHL Worldwide Express has its European hub at the airport and operates a fleet of Boeing 727-200 freighters on intra-EU routes.
Traditional air cargo traffic handled last month, decreased by 7.7 percent on July 1995 to 17,744 tonnes.
The global number of full-freighter flights operating at Brussels in July 1996 totalled 1,825 flights, up 10.0 percent on the same month last year.
In the 12-month period ending July 1996, the airport handled 442,055 tonnes of global air cargo traffic, an increase of 6.9 percent on August 1994 to July 1995.
Apart from DHL, other airlines to operate scheduled all-cargo flights to and from Brussels include Saudia Airlines Corp, Singapore Airlines Ltd, Air Hong Kong, Malaysia Airline System and Korean Air Lines Co.
A group including Apollo Real Estate Investment Fund II L.P. said Tuesday it raised its stake in Koger Equity Inc to 1,713,598 common shares or 9.59 percent from 8.25 percent previously held.
In a filing with the Securities and Exchange Commission, the group said it bought an additional 241,000 common shares between July 15 and August 20 at prices ranging from $13.125 $15 per share.
Sweden's National Economic Research Institute (KI) said on Tuesday the country's industrial economy had bottomed out of its decline and a recovery was on the horizon.
"The industrial economy has stopped deteriorating, and a recovery has instead become discernible," KI said in its monthly economic barometer.
"Order intake is reported to have increased slightly, albeit only from the export market. On the domestic market, order intake has continued to fall over the past few months," KI said.
The institute reported a recurring pattern of increased export demand throughout most trial sectors, whilst domestic orders were either flat or declining. However, the consumer goods industry showed no sign of a recovery in the near term.
"Order intake and production volumes have continued to fall, and the sub-group consumer durables is still showing the weakest development," KI said.
The Beijing Commodity Exchange has issued new rules on futures contract deliveries in a bid to protect investors and control risk, the China Securities said on Tuesday.
The rules, which take effect on August 30, say all members who take spot deliveries on contracts must first have approval from exchange authorities. Applications must be made one month before the start of the delivery month.
Currently, only those members whose net positions exceed a position limit must obtain approval.
The position limit varies for different contracts. The exchange trades green beans, peanuts and plywood.
The exchange said that once trading enters the delivery month, members must liquidate positions above the ceiling. Members who fail to do so will be forced to close out excess positions at the limit-down level for long position holders and limit-up for short position holders.
Causeway Investment Ltd jumped to top volume on the Singapore stock market in mid-afternoon trade on Tuesday, with more than nine million shares traded amidst various rumours, including one of a possible takeover offer, said dealers.
Another rumour was that the company was a likely candidate for a separate listing on the Malaysian over-the-counter stock market when it materialises, a second dealer said.
Causeway Invest officials were not immediately available for comment.
At 0751 GMT, the share price of S$1.55 was one cent below its year high. Total turnover was 9.33 million shares traded in the open market.
Year		     Amount    Coupon     Yield     Price  Conc.
"Headline M4 number came in beneath market expectations. However, the composition is not as favourable, with consumer credit up strongly to 539 million stg, nearly double that reported in June. This suggests that there may be some upside to Thursday's retail sales figures. If so, then the chances of another interest rate cut look remote."
London's blue-chip FTSE index hit an intra-day record on Tuesday, boosted by benign money supply data as European trading was dominated by the prospects for inflation and interest rates.
Positive German money supply data failed to inspire the German stock market, which traded mixed after the Bundesbank announced slower growth of key M3 money supply figures and virtually guaranteed a cut in its key money market rate.
French stocks opened higher and breezed quickly through the 2,000 index barrier for the first time since August 8, on strengthened hopes of a new round of rate cuts.
Markets were waiting for news of the U.S. Federal Reserve's open market committee meeting later in the day. It had been expected to raise interest rates but is now widely believed to be content to leave them unchanged.
Wall Street, also stilled by the FOMC meeting and general summer torpor had its slowest full day of trade this year on Monday, which may have been factored into Frankfurt's less than euphoric response to the money supply data.
The FTSE's record 3,881.5, the second record in two days, was reached when the British government announced growth in M4, the broad measure of money supply, fell to a seasonally adjusted 8.8 percent on a year-on-year basis in July from 10.1 in percent June. The figure was inside the government's 3.0 to 9.0 percent monitoring range and compared with market forecasts clustered around 9.4 percent.
Analysts said the figures would give further ammunition to Chancellor of the Exchequer Kenneth Clarke if he wants to trim the 5.75 percent base interest rate again in coming months.
"It is a good figure...most people hadn't expected the figure to come back into the monitoring range, which is about the first time for six or seven months," said economist Keith Wade of Schroders.
In Germany, growth in M3, the German central bank's main policy guide, slowed to an annualised 8.6 percent in July from 9.6 percent in June.
"It is now very clear that we have a very good chance to reach the Bundesbank target zone (of four to seven percent growth for 1996). I think there is a very good chance that we will see a cut in the repo rate," said Uwe Angenendt, economist at BHF-Bank in Frankfurt.
Frankfurt started bourse floor trading quietly, with the DAX index barely moved as traders built a fuller picture of the interest rate outlook. The electronic IBIS DAX index was up around 6.7 points.
Currency markets, however, marked time in early European trading. The dollar was ticking over in Europe barely changed from Monday's closing levels, with the market awaiting the outcome of the FOMC meeting.
"It's hard to find anyone looking for a Fed tightening today," said Jeremy Hawkins, senior economic adviser at BankAmerica. "There's a very small risk of a hike and the main focus now is whether the Fed has to move at all this year."
The outcome of the meeting is expected around 1815 GMT, too late for Europe to react.
Assuming no change, the next hurdle for a moribund market will be Thursday's Bundesbank council meeting. Traders are looking for the 3.30 percent repo to be pared, although opinions vary as to the size of a possible cut.
Some are looking for a cut of only 0.05 to 0.10 of a percentage point, while others are more bullish and reckon the central bank will go for a bigger reduction of perhaps 0.15 to 0.20 points.
The Ifo business sentiment index is due on Wednesday and expected to at best show a small improvement in July to around 91.0 after hitting a three-month low of 90.4 percent in June. A soft number will convince traders that the Bundesbank will ease.
Dollar/mark was trading at 1.4902 and dollar/yen at 107.90 versus Monday's late 1.4875 and 107.90. Mark/French franc was trading at 3.4167 against 3.4232.
The Financial Times-Stock Exchange index of 100 leading British shares was up 18.3 points at 3,882.3.  Frankfurt's 30-share DAX index was up 0.46 at 2,563.20. Paris's CAC-40 was up 19.32 at 2005.53.
Gold opened firmer in quiet European trade at $387.55 London's $386.65 with next resistance at $387.50. Silver was firmer at $5.21 vs 512.00, holding overnight gains from New York, mainly due to fund buying. Dealers expect further short-term gains. Platinum was firmer at $399.500 vs $398.40.
Travis Boats & Motors Inc said on Tuesday that it has entered into a conditional letter of intent to acquire assets of North Alabama Watersports Inc located in Florence, Alabama.
Terms of the transaction were disclosed.
"The NAWS acquisition fits in well with our business plan which is to acquire stores in new markets with annulaized revenues of at least $5.0 million," said Ron Spradling, executive vice president of new store devlopment, in a press release.
The average accepted yield at an auction of one-year Slovak government bonds was 8.94 percent, the National Bank of Slovakia (NBS) said on Tuesday.
The Los Angeles County Board of Supervisors on Tuesday named David Janssen as the county's new chief administrative officer, a county spokeswoman said.
Janssen, a former chief administrative officer of San Diego County, will assume the post on Monday.
Janssen fills a post vacated by Sally Reed, who resigned in May to become head of California's Department of Motor Vehicles.
County supervisors had named Sandra Davis, Reed's chief deputy, as interim chief administrative officer until a replacement was found.
Janssen served as San Diego County's chief administrative officer from 1992 to 1996. Before that, he served as the county's assistant administrative officer.
Police investigating Belgium's worst child sex scandal on Tuesday contacted the officer who led the investigation into Britain's "House of Horrors" serial killings in which a dozen young women were murdered.
The sight of Belgian police digging for bodies at the weekend evoked memories of scenes at the house of British serial killers Fred and Rosemary West, where British detectives excavated the remains of the couple's dismembered victims.
Belgian police had asked John Bennett, the officer who dealt with the West investigation, for advice in their search for further possible victims of an organised paedophile ring.
"The Central Bureau of Investigation of the Belgian Police have today contacted Superintendent John Bennett and discussed aspects of their investigation because of the experience gained through the Cromwell Street enquiries," said police in Gloucestershire, where Bennett is based.
Apart from speaking to British colleagues, Belgian police have turned to countries such as the Czech Republic, Germany, the Netherlands and France in their search for two teenage girls who were abducted a year ago by a convicted child sex offender, according to Belgian media.
Fred and Rosemary West sexually abused and killed young girls and women who were then chopped up and buried beneath the cellar, bathroom and garden of a house labelled Britain's "House of Horrors".
Police became suspicious when they could not trace their daughter Heather West and rumours led them to dig up the garden in Cromwell Street, in the western English city of Gloucester, in 1994.
In similar scenes, Belgian police at the weekend discovered the corpses of two eight-year-old girls thought to have been victims of an organised paedophilia ring who had been buried in a garden.
Convicted paedophile Marc Dutroux and associate Michel Lelievre led police to the corpses on Saturday. The two men were charged on Friday after police rescued two abducted young girls from a house owned by Dutroux.
The murdered eight-year-olds had been sexually abused, starved to death and buried in a garden after being kidnapped in June 1995.
Dutroux denied responsibility for the girls' deaths, telling police they died of starvation in late February or March while he was serving a four-month prison sentence for theft.
Dutroux's wife Michelle Martin was charged on Monday with being an accomplice in the abduction and illegal imprisonment of children.
In the West case, Rosemary West continues to protest her innocence. She was found guilty in November 1995 of murdering 10 women. Frederick  confessed to killing 12 women and girls but hanged himself in prison before he could face trial.
Their victims were mainly isolated young women whose disappearance went unnoticed. But they also killed their 16-year-old daughter Heather, Fred's eight-year-old stepdaughter Charmaine and a lodger who was pregnant with Fred's child.
The pair picked up girls and sexually tormented them before killing and burying them at their house.
Following are the results of a poll of 10 economists on the expected outcome of this week's Bundesbank council meeting. The poll was conducted on Tuesday and is conducted regularly before Bundesbank meetings.
1. Will the Bundesbank cut its official interest rates this week?
2. Will there be a further cut in the discount and Lombard rates later this year?
3. Will there be another fixed tender set this Thursday?
3a. If so at what rate?
    Economist				    1.  2.  3.   3a.
Swedish engineering group Atlas Copco said on Tuesday that the stronger crown had a nine percent negative hit on its earnings in the first half of 1996.
"Demand for the full year 1996 is expected to remain unchanged compared to 1995 levels, and earnings are expected to improve," the company said in a statement.
"Market conditions are, however, still uncertain," it added.
Atlas reported a 12 percent lift in profit after financial items to 1.57 billion crowns.
This profit included a gain of 342 million crowns related to the sale of VOAC Hydraulics and restructuring costs of 225 million crowns within the indsturial technology business area.
Sales for the half year rose six percent from a year ago to 12.37 billion crowns and orders received increased three percent to 12.98 billion crowns.
"The strengthening of the Swedish crown had, however, a negative effect of nine percent," the company said.
Republican presidential candidate Bob Dole got a boost from his party's convention and has sliced into President Bill Clinton's still-solid lead, a New York Times/CBS News poll reported on Tuesday.
But the survey showed that many voters still are sceptical about Dole's tax-cut proposal and are split in their opinion about the former Kansas senator himself.
The poll showed 50 percent of registered voters surveyed would support Clinton, a Democrat, and Vice President Al Gore if the election were held today, while 39 percent backed Dole and his running mate Jack Kemp.
The 11-point gap represents a gain of 5 percentage points for Dole and a loss of 6 for Clinton compared with a Times/CBS News poll taken shortly before last week's Republican Party convention.
A separate CNN/USA Today/Gallup Poll put Dole's lead at 7 points, with Clinton ahead 48 percent to Dole's 41 percent. The poll said Dole picked up 11 points since the Republican convention, largely due to the selection of Jack Kemp as his running mate.
In a three-way race, 49 percent of voters in the Times/CBS poll said they would back Clinton, 37 percent would support Dole and 8 percent said they would vote for Ross Perot, the billionaire candidate of the Reform Party.
On Dole's proposal for a 15 percent tax cut along with a balanced budget, 32 percent of those surveyed said they thought taxes would go up if he were elected in November.
Twenty-four percent said taxes would decrease and 40 percent said they would stay the same.
Sixty-three percent of respondents said Dole had not explained his economic plan enough versus 27 percent who said he had.
Twenty-nine percent of voters had a favourable opinion of Dole and 32 percent did not. Fifty-four percent said he had made it clear what he wanted to do as president, and 40 percent said he had not.
The poll of 1,138 adults was conducted Friday through Sunday and has a margin of error of plus or minus three percentage points.
The CNN/USA Today/Gallup poll was based on interviews with 1,006 registered voters from Friday through Sunday and also had a margin of error of 3 percentage points .
The Australian government's 1996/97 budget slashes labour market programmes, effectively cancelling the previous government's Working Nation initiative.
The budget cuts A$575 million from the labour market budget in 1996/97, leaving spending at A$1.46 billion.
In the following year, the cuts rise to A$956 million, leaving programmes at A$1.22 billion.
But the A$1-billion-a-year Working Nation programme, announced in 1994, was due to expire after 1997/98, so little money is saved in 1998/99.
NWE naphtha slipped lower with crude futures on Tuesday, traders said.
Buyers said they were prepared to pay numbers around $185 cif NWE for Russian cargoes, three of which still appear to be unsold for August. Another small Russian cargo was heard traded at $186 on Monday.
A trader holds a Teesside-origin cargo which had emerged from a paper chain, but this was not seen actively offered.
A 19,000 tonne N+A cargo from Algeciras was also available, but the seller was not willing to discuss prices.
THE 2001 MATURITY TRADED AT LIST-1/2.
Goldman, Sachs & Co.
Merrill Lynch & Co.
Dean Witter Reynolds Inc.
Raymond, James & Associates, Inc.
A.G. Edwards & Sons, Inc.
NOTE: Figures are percent change on previous year except unemployment, which is the percent rate, and the current account deficit, which is A$ billions.
South Africa's rugby managers made peace with Sports Minister Steve Tshwete on Tuesday, defusing criticism that too little was being done to bring blacks into the white-dominated game.
Tshwete told a news conference after meeting South African Rugby Football Union (Sarfu) chief executive Riaan Oberholzer and development director Sas Bailey that he was "satisfied" with the union's development programme.
"There has been a great deal of turmoil in the last few days for the image of rugby in this country," the minister said.
"There is a strong perception that rugby remains the exclusive reserve of white players and supporters and that SARFU is trapped in the twilight of the past and not taking rugby development seriously."
Tshwete publically critised Sarfu in weekend newspapers for not producing a strategic plan for developing black and mixed-race players.
He also slammed white fans who had waved the old South African flag during recent matches.
But after Tuesday's talks, he said he recognised the efforts Sarfu was making and that the Department of Sport would link up with Sarfu to form a South African rugby foundation to focus on players from disadvantaged communities.
A consortium of five small- and medium-sized South Korean construction companies has agreed in principle to take over debt-ridden Kun Young Construction Corp, an official at Dongsung Construction said on Tuesday.
The consortium also helped the home builder avoid bankruptcy by extending gaurantees to meet debt payments due on Tuesday afternoon, he said.
It has until Tuesday afternoon to make the payments before facing bankruptcy.
The Dongsung official said Kun Young would be able to meet its deadline. "We helped Kun Young escape going bust as we promised to give it a payment guarantee for the promissory notes," he said.
Kun Young narrowly escaped bankruptcy in early August when SEOULBANK extended it emergency loans to avoid defaulting on debt payments.
CBOT soymeal futures closed higher, led by nearby August, on light deliveries and talk of firm cash soymeal premiums in South America, traders said.
Nearby August soymeal also gained on short covering before expiration of that contract slated for Wednesday at 1201 CDT.
Soyoil ended higher in step with the gains in soybeans but the rally was limited by persistent heavy deliveries on the August, they said.
Soymeal closed $7.00 to $0.20 per ton higher, with August up $7.00 at $263.00. Soyoil was 0.05 to 0.22 cent per lb higher, with August up 0.22 at 25.10.
Soymeal futures volume was estimated at 18,000 contracts, down from 21,117 Monday. Soymeal options volume was estimated at 1,800 contracts, up from 1,323 Monday.
Soyoil futures volume was estimated at 17,000 contracts, about the same as Monday's 17,102 contracts. Soyoil options volume was estimated at 800 contracts, up from 343 contracts Monday.
The Chicago Board of Trade reported the following stocks of corn in Toledo, deliverable against CBOT futures. (in 000's bushels).
-- Donaldson Lufkin & Jenrette upgraded ITT Corp to recommended from outperform, a market source said.
-- The analyst was not available for comment.
-- The stock ended Monday at 56.
Eisuke Sakakibara, a senior official at the Japanese Finance Ministry, was on Tuesday quoted as saying that even if the dollar rises above 110 yen, there is only a small chance of such a rise having an adverse effect on the Japanese economy.
Sakakibara was quoted as saying currency intervention takes full effect if it is in line with economic fundamentals, such as when the yen's sharp rise was reversed last summer.
The knack of intervention is to conduct it aggressively when the market is losing direction, and intervention on a large scale can create a flow for the market if it is conducted at turning points, he said.
Sakakibara has been dubbed "Mr Yen" by the currency market because he is seen as the key person behind driving the dollar back up above 100 yen last year from its record low of 79.75 yen in April 1995.
In February this year, the central banks of Hong Kong and Singapore reached an agreement with Japan to carry out currency intervention on Tokyo's behalf.
In April, Japan agreed with the monetary authorities of several Asian nations to establish bilateral repurchase pacts using dollar assets to provide liquidity in times of financial crisis.
Sakakibara said he was thinking about a way of using yen-denominated assets to stabilise the currency market.
For this, he said, it was necessary to eliminate obstacles to foreign operators' investment in yen-denominated assets. He said that the monetary authorities of other Asian nations want well-established systems for Japanese bond settlements and short-term money markets.
NOTE: The current third quarter includes a one-time inventory adjustment of $383,000.
DUBLIN - EU leaders hold special European Council (October).
SINGAPORE - Inaugural World Trade Organisation (WTO) ministerial conference (December 9-13).
DUBLIN - Irish Presidency European Council of heads of state and government (December 13-14).
LUXEMBOURG (NEW ITEM) - Luxembourg U.N. Association holds news conference prior to the world congress of the 50th anniversary of the world federation of U.N. associations (1700/1300 GMT). Venue: Kirchberg Centre.
BRUSSELS - European Union cereals management committee meets for export tender.
LUXEMBOURG (NEW ITEM) - Luxembourg U.N. Association holds World Congress of the 50th anniversary of the World Federation of U.N. Associations (To August 26). Venue: Kirchberg Centre.
LUXEMBOURG (NEW ITEM) - U.N. regional European Associations hold 15th conference.
BERLIN - International Energy Agency (IEA) holds conference on "The technologies of natural gas, power unit for market development" (To September 4). Contact: IEA (33) 1 45 24 94 84.
BRUSSELS - European Parliament Inquiry Committee into mad cow disease holds first meeting. Spanish Socialist leader Manuel Medina presents report.
BRUSSELS - IGC Working Party of EU foreign ministers' representatives meets to continue review of EU treaties (To September 4). Topics include: citizenship, fundamental rights, subsidiarity, simplification and codification.
- European Commissioner Neil Kinnock presents communication on an internal market in aviation.
BRUSSELS - European Parliament mini-session (To September 5).
- (1500/1300 GMT) Statement by the Commission on urgent political matters of major importance followed by questions.
- (1630/1430 GMT) Statements by the Council and the Commission an public services followed by a debate.
- Robin Teverson report on the sixth annual report for 1994 on the structural funds COM(95)583.
- (possibly) Konstantinos Klironomos report on development issues relating to Objective I structural measures in Greece.
- Giles Chichester report on development issues/Objective 1 - structural measures in Portugal.
- Angela Siepra Gonzalez report on development problems/structural measures under Objectives 1-2 and 5b in Spain (1994-1999).
- Bernd Lange report on the 1995 annual report on the research and technological development activities of the European Union COM(95)443.
- (possibly) Karl von Wogau report on the rates of duty laid down in Council directive 92/79/EEC of 19 October 1992 on the approximation of taxes on cigarettes, Council directive 92/80/EEC of 19 October 1992, on the approximation of taxes on manufactured tobacco other than cigarettes, Council directive 92/84/EEC of 19 October 1992, on the approximation of the rates of excise duty on alcohol and alcoholic beverages and 92/82/EEC of 19 October 1992, on the approximation of the rates of excise duties on mineral oils COM(95)285.
- Werner Langen report on the common system of Value Added Tax (level of the standard rate) COM(95)731.
- Gipo Farassino report on the proposal for a Council directive amending directive 91/439/EEC on driving licences COM(96)55.
- (possibly) Per Stenmarck report on the proposal for a Council directive on safety rules and standards for passenger ships COM(96)61.
BRUSSELS - European Parliament mini-session (second of two days).
- (until 0900/0700 GMT) Political group meetings.
- (0900/0700 GMT) Edgar Schiedermeier report on a European strategy for encouraging local development and employment initiatives COM(95)273.
- Michel Rocard report on the reduction of working hours.
- (1100/0900 GMT) Votes on reports under the cooperation, codecision and assent procedures and motions for resolutions on which the debate has closed.
BRUSSELS - Executive committee of the Bosnian Peace Implementation Council, known as the Steering Board, meets ahead of September 14 Bosnian elections to discuss post-election framework peace plan.
LINZ, Austria - GLOBE holds conference on "Responding to climate change". Contact: GLOBE (322) 230 6589.
TRALEE, Ireland - Informal General Affairs Council (To September 8). Agenda includes review of IGC progress.
BRUSSELS - (possibly) ECOFIN Council.
BRUSSELS - Euro-Mediterranean meeting on projects concerning cultural heritage (To September 10).
BRUSSELS - European Newspaper Publishers Association (ENPA) holds conference on "Journalists and the world of politics, publishers and politicians" (1100/0900 GMT). Venue: Royal Crown Hotel. Contact: ENPA (322) 551 0190.
EDINBURGH - European Commission's DG XVI, Committee of the Regions and Scotland hold conference on land-use planning in the North Sea and Baltic regions.
- Judgment C-61/94 Commission v/ Germany: external relations.
- Judgment C-222/94 Commission v/ United Kingdom: free movement of persons.
- Judgment C-277/94 Z. Taflan-Met and others v/ Bestuur van de Sociale Verzekeringsbank: external relations.
- Judgment C-11/95 Commission v/ Belgium: free movement of persons.
- Oral procedure C-24/95 Land Rheinland-Pfalz v/ Alcan Deutschland GmbH: state aid.
- (1100/0900 GMT) Oral procedure C-59/95 Francisco Bastos Moriana and others v/ Bundesanstalt fuer Arbeit: free movement of persons.
- (1530/1330 GMT) Oral procedure C-169/95 Spain v/ Commission: state aid.
BRUSSELS - Centre for European Policy Studies (CEPS) holds seminar on "NATO enlargement" (1315/1115 GMT). Speaker is Andras Simonyi, Ambassador and Head of Hungarian Liaison Mission with NATO and the Western European Union. Venue: Place du Congres 1. Contact: CEPS (322) 229 3911.
BRUSSELS - European Commission holds regular weekly meeting.
- European Commission President Jacques Santer presents communication on public services.
- European Commissioner Christos Papoutsis presents communication on nuclear industries in the EU - indicative nuclear programme under article 40 of the Euratom treaty COM(96)339.
- European Commissioner Martin Bangemann presents communication on the proposal for an EP and Council directive on the application to voice telephony of the principle of open network provision and universal service for telecoms in a competitive environment.
- European Commissioner Sir Leon Brittan presents communication on the second phase of the integration of textile and clothing products under GATT.
- European Commission President Jacques Santer and European Commissioners Yves-Thibault de Silguy and Mario Monti present communication on the legal framework for the use of the Euro.
- European Commission President Santer and European Commissioner de Silguy present communication on Commission proposal on a budgetary stability pact.
- European Commissioner de Silguy presents communication on foreign exchange in the EU.
- Oral procedure T-227/95 AssiDoman Kraft Products and others v/ Commission: competition.
- Judgment joined cases C-58/95 Gallotti, C-75/95 Censi, C-112/95 Salmaggi, C-119/95 Pasquire, C-123/95 Zappone, C-135/95 Segna, C-140/95 Cervetti, C-141/95 Gasbarri, C-154/95 Narducci, C-157/95 Smaldone: environment and consumers.
- Oral procedure C/241/95 The Queen, ex parte: Accrington Beef Co Ltd v/ Intervention Board for Agricultural Produce: commercial policy.
- Oral procedure C-255/95 S. Agri and others v/ Regione Veneto: agriculture.
- (1030/0830 GMT) Oral procedure C-273/95 Impresa Agricola Buratti Leonardo, Pierluigi e Livio v/ Tabacchicoltori Associati Veneti Soc. coop. a.r.l. (TAV): agriculture.
- Judgment C-251/94 Eduardo Lafuente Nieto v/ Instituto Nacional de Seguridad Social (INSS) and Tesoreria General de la Seguridad Social (TGSS): free movement of persons.
- Judgment joined cases C-254/94, C/255/94, C-269/94 Fattoria autonoma tabacchi and others v/ Ministero dell'Agricoltura et delle Foreste and others: agriculture.
- Judgment C-278/94 Commission v/ Belgium: free movement of persons.
- Judgment C-236/95 Commission v/ Greece: company law.
- Opinion C-340/94 E.J.M. de Jaeck v/ Staatssecretaris van Financieen: free movement of persons.
- Opinion joined cases C-88/95, C-102/95 and C-103/95 Bernardina Martinez Losada and others v/ Instituto Nacional de Empleo (INEM), Instituto Nacional de la Seguridad Social (INSS): free movement of persons.
- Opinion C-139/95 Livia Balestra v/ Istituto nazionale per la previdenza sociale (INPS): social policy.
- (1530/1330 GMT) Phytheron International SA v/ Jean Bourdon SA: free movement of goods.
- Opinion C-221/94 Commission v/ Luxembourg: approximation of legislation.
- Opinion C-142/95-P Associazione agricoltori della provincia di Rovigo and others v/ Commission, Mauro Girello and Greguoldo Daniele: environment and consumers.
- Opinion C-262/95 Commission v/ Germany: environment and consumers.
- Opinion C-314/95 Commission v/ Italy: agriculture.
- Oral procedure C-69/95 Italy v/ Commission: agriculture.
- Oral procedure joined cases T-454/93, T-455/93, T-456/93 and T-457/93 Elders Trading Ltd and Paterson Elders (Produce) Ltd. and others v/ Commission: agriculture.
BRUSSELS (NEW ITEM) - Union of Industrial and Employee's Confederation of Europe (UNICE) hold press briefing on "Taxation in the EU" (1530/1330 GMT). Venue: UNICE, rue Joseph II. Contact: UNICE (322) 231 1445.
BRUSSELS - Friends of the Earth Europe hold conference on "International biosafety" (To September 13). Topics include: the EU and international biosafety actions; experiences with international legislation on the transfer of potentially hazardous substances; north-south transfer of genetically modified organisms; legal instruments to be included in an international biosafety protocol, implementation and control. Venue: Palace Hotel. Contact: Friends of the Earth Europe (322) 542 0180.
BRUSSELS - Centre for European Policy Studies (CEPS) holds workshop on "The strategic implications of the Euro for banks and corporates" (1000/0800 GMT). Agenda includes: implication of the empirical findings on economies of scale and scope in European banking; mergers and acquisitions in European banking; European banking: a cross-country comparison; Euro pricing and marketing strategies in Europe; implications for corporate finance; place of business and taxation. Venue: Place du Congres 1. Contact: CEPS (322) 229 3911.
BRUSSELS - COPA holds conference on "Women farmers: more than a job, a life" (To September 17). Venue: COPA, 23-25 rue de la Science. Contact: COPA (322) 287 2711.
BARCELONA, Spain - Eurotextil exhibition on the textile and clothing industry takes place (To September 17). Venue: Fira de Barcelona. Contact: Eurotextil (34) 93 233 2000.
CRACOW, Poland - European Commission and the Polish government hold joint conference on "Industrial property in European integration" (1900/1700 GMT) (To September 17). Speakers include: Head of the Commission delegation in Poland Rolf Timans, Commission DG XV Director General John Mogg. Contact: Kserkop (48) 12 33 39 24.
BRUSSELS - Farm Council (To September 17).
STRASBOURG - European Parliament plenary session (To September 20).
BRUSSELS - IGC Working Party of EU foreign ministers' representatives meets to continue review of EU treaties (To September 17). Topics include: institutional issues, budgetary issues, national parliaments.
BRUSSELS - Knibb, Gormezano and Partners hold conference on "The automotive industry and the environment" (To September 18). Venue: Renaissance Hotel. Contact: Automotive Matters International Ltd (44) 1628 526 060.
DUBLIN - EU trade ministers hold informal meeting (To September 19) to prepare for the first ministerial conference of the World Trade Organisation (WTO) in Singapore on December 9-13. Participants include: Trade Commissioner Sir Leon Brittan and WTO Director General Renato Ruggiero. Venue: Dublin Castle.
BRUSSELS - Committee of the Regions holds plenary session (To September 19).
BRUSSELS - Centre for European Policy Studies (CEPS) holds seminar on "Banning chemical weapons" (1315/1115 GMT). Speaker is Ian R. Kenyon, Executive Secretary, Preparatory Commission for the Organisation for the Prohibition of Chemical Weapons. Venue: Place du Congres 1. Contact: CEPS (322) 229 3911.
LONDON - AIG conferences Ltd holds "The European power forum: regulatory developments and strategic opportunities" (To September 20). Venue: Park Lane Hotel. Contact: AIG conferences Ltd (44) 171 2422324.
BRUSSELS - IBC Legal Studies and Services holds conference on "Telecommunications and EC competition law" (To September 20). Venue: SAS Hotel. Contact: Anna D'Alton, IBC Legal Studies and Services (44) 171 453 2043.
DUBLIN - Informal ECOFIN Council (To September 22).
KILLARNEY, Ireland - Informal Farm Council (To September 24). Provisional agenda includes beef market trends and sales promotion.
BRUSSELS - Centre for European Policy Studies (CEPS) holds seminar on "World competition rules" (1315/1115 GMT). Speaker is Karel Van Miert, member of the European Commission responsible for competition policy. Venue: Place du Congres 1. Contact: CEPS (322) 229 3911.
BRUSSELS - Social Affairs Council.
- Proposal for a decision on the establishment of an employment and labour market policy committee.
- Modification of the "carcinogens" directive.
- Amendment of directive 86/378/EEC on equal treatment in occupational social security schemes.
- Council resolutions on equal opportunities between men and women and the European structural funds.
- Information and consultation of workers.
- Future of social dialogue.
- Joint report on employment.
BRUSSELS - Economic and Social Committee (ECOSOC) holds plenary session (To September 26).
LONDON - European Commission hosts conference on "Private security industry in society: a European perspective" (To September 25). Topics include: vocational training, regulation, standards of service and employment. Venue: Forte Crest Hotel. Contact: Nigel Greaves Associates, Andrew Mackay (44) 1886 833 034.
BRUSSELS - IGC Working Party of EU foreign ministers' representatives meets to continue review of EU treaties (To September 24). Topics include: issues on which proposals become available from delegations.
BRUSSELS - Centre for European Policy Studies (CEPS) holds seminar on "The inter-governmental conference" (1315/1115 GMT). Speaker is Michael Patijn, State Secretary for Foreign Affairs, The Netherlands. Venue: Place du Congres 1. Contact: CEPS (322) 229 3911.
DUBLIN - Informal Justice and Internal Affairs Council (To September 27).
BERLIN - The Kangaroo Group in collaboration with the Fondation Europe et Societe host European Parliament and Commission conference on "On the way to the European home market: the single currency" (To September 28). Agenda includes: role of the single currency in the development of the EU; priorities of the Irish Presidency regarding the single currency; preparation for the move to the single currency; impact on the French banking system; impact on financial services and policy; impact on business; single currency and social aspects; relations between the single currency and the currencies which will join the EMU later; single currency and political union. Speakers include: MEPs Karl von Wogau, Giorgos Katiforis and Elmar Brok; Irish Finance Minister Ruairi Quinn; European Economy Commissioner Yves-Thibault de Silguy. Venue: Steigenberger Hotel. Contact: Kangaroo Group conference office (322) 284 4438.
BRUSSELS (NEW ITEM) - Club de Bruxelles hold conference on "The future of Biotechnologies in Europe" (To September 27). Topics include: development and role of biotechnology R&D in the EU; innovation in health care: novel pharmaceutical products; new crops from plant biotechnology; the "greening" of industry: clean products and processes; biotechnology in Europe society: public perceptions; industrial competitiveness and biotechnological innovation. Contact: Club de Bruxelles (322) 743 1520.
WARSAW - Euromoney Seminars holds third annual conference on "The 1996 Polish investment forum" (To September 27). Venue: Bristol Hotel. Contact: Euromoney Seminars (44) 171 7798793.
ROME - European Association of Advertising Agencies (EAAA) holds annual conference on "The future of brand-building across borders". Contact: Paola di Discordia, EAAA (322) 280 1603.
BRUSSELS - Telecoms Council.
- Proposal for a European Parliament and Council directive on a common framework for general authorisations and individual licences in the field of telecommunications services.
- Proposal for a European Parliament and Council decision on action at Union level in the field of satellite personal communications services in the European Union.
- (possibly) Commission communication on ITU policy forum.
- Proposal for a European Parliament and Council directive on telecoms terminal and satellite earth station equipment.
- TENs: proposal for a European Parliament and Council decision on a series of guidelines for trans-European telecommunications networks.
- (possibly) ONP voice telephony: proposal for a European Parliament and Council directive.
- (possibly) proposal for a Council decision on inter-administration telematic networks for statistics relating to the trading of goods between member states (EDICOM).
- (possibly) Draft Council decision on promotion of multilingualism in the information society.
- Proposal for a European Parliament and Council directive on common rules for the development of Community postal services and the improvement of quality of service.
- (possibly) Proposal for a Council decision regarding the definition and implementation of Community policy in the field of telecommunications and postal services.
- (possibly) Health aspects of mobile phones.
BRUSSELS - Centre for European Policy Studies (CEPS) holds workshop on "Completing the internal market for electricity: the meaning of the June 20th decision" (1300/1100 GMT). Speakers include MEP Claude Desama. Venue: Place du Congres 1. Contact: CEPS (322) 229 3911.
BRUSSELS - IGC Working Party of EU foreign ministers' representatives meets to continue review of EU treaties. Topics include: flexibility, follow-up of specific issues in the light of first round of discussions.
DUBLIN - People First holds conference on "Challenges of living and working in the European information society" (0830/0630 GMT) (To October 1). Topics include: employment and economic structure in the information society; the future of work in the information society; labour market and learning in the information society; living in the information society. Venue: Dublin Castle. Contact: People First (353) 1 661 8904.
DUBLIN - EU leaders hold special European Council.
Main topics include trade, fight against drugs, EU's future, inter-governmental conference (IGC), employment and preparations for the December ministerial meeting of the World Trade Organisation (WTO) in Singapore.
MALTA - Ministerial meeting on drugs and organised crime.
LUXEMBOURG - General Affairs Council (To October 2).
- Preparation for December WTO ministerial meeting.
- West Bank and Gaza: Commission proposal for a negotiating mandate.
- Relations with Albania: approval of mandate to negotiate a new agreement.
- Medium/long-term strategy.
- Middle East.
- Mandate for negotiation of extension of steel agreements with the former USSR.
- Relations with central and eastern European countries; decisions of association councils.
- Approval to sign supplementary protocols to Baltic FTAs.
- India - Council conclusions on Commission communication.
- ASEAN - Council conclusions on Commission communication; protocol to ASEAN agreement to take account of Vietnam's accession.
- Preparation for SADC ministerial meeting on October 14-15.
- Food aid distribution regulation.
- Mid-term review of decisions on the association of overseas countries and territories.
- Draft joint action on anti-personnel landmines (possible adoption of further joint action).
- KEDO (Korean Peninsular Energy Development Organisation).
- (possibly) Preparation of the association council with Turkey.
- IGC ministerial session.
BRUSSELS - Touchstone exhibitions and conferences hold conference on "Managing economic transition in central and eastern Europe and central Asia" (To October 3). Venue: Palais des Congres. Contact: Olga Arola, Touchstone exhibitions and conferences (44) 181 332 0044.
BRUSSELS - Agra Europe holds conference on "CAP reform 1996-2000 and beyond" (To October 2). Venue: Sheraton Hotel. Contact: Agra Europe (44) 1892 511 807.
BRUSSELS - European Trade Union Confederation (ETUC) holds conference on "European works councils" (To October 4). Contact: ETUC (322) 224 0411.
LUXEMBOURG - Transport Council (To October 4).
- Recommendation for a Council decision authorising the Commission to open negotiations on air transport agreements between the Community and Bulgaria, the Czech Republic, Hungary, Poland, Romania and Slovakia.
- Relationship with central and eastern European countries.
- Negotiations between the EU and Switzerland on land and air transport.
- Proposal for a European Parliament and Council directive on summertime arrangements.
- (possibly) Access to the road haulage profession.
- (possibly) Taxation of goods vehicles to replace directive 93/89/EEC.
- Proposal for a Council regulation laying down the conditions under which non-resident carriers may operate national road passenger transport services within a member state.
- Proposal for the modification of Council regulation (EEC) No 684/92 on common rules for the international carriage of passengers by coach and bus.
- (possbly) White paper on the future of the railways.
- (possibly) Follow-up to white paper on air traffic management.
- Proposal for a Council regulation on air carrier liabilities in case of accidents.
- Proposal for a Council regulation amending regulation EEC/3922/91 on the harmonisation of technical requirements and administrative procedures in the field of civil aviation.
- (possibly) Proposal on the compilation of lists of passengers on roll-on roll-off ferries.
- Proposal for a Council directive setting up a harmonised safety regime for fishing vessels of 24 metres or more in length.
- (possibly) Proposal for a Council directive amending Council directive 93/75/EEC concerning minimum requirements for vessels bound for or leaving Community ports and carrying dangerous or polluting goods.
- (possibly) Proposal for a Council directive amending directive 94/58/EEC on the minimum level of training for seafarers.
LIEGE, Belgium - European Institute for Legal Studies "Fernand Dehousse" holds conference on "Regional trade agreements and multilateral rules after the Uruguay Round: convergence, divergence and interaction" (To October 5). Venue: Palais des Congres. Contact: Xavier Denoel, Liege University (32) 41 66 3156.
LUXEMBOURG - Research Council.
- Financial supplement to the fourth framework programme/task forces.
- Follow-up to the green paper on innovation.
- (possibly) Bilateral science and technology agreements with several third countries.
- Joint Research Centre (JRC): Commission report on progress in the implementation of Council conclusions of April 21, 1994 on the role of the JRC.
- Fifth RTD framework programme.
- (possibly) Evaluation of Community RTD activities.
LUXEMBOURG - Industry Council.
- Implications of the information society for EU policies.
- Review of the action plan "Europe's way to the information society".
- Member state experiences.
- The information society and services for industry.
- Standardisation and the information society.
- Information society and the citizen.
- (possibly) Multilingual information society.
- (possibly) The information society and space.
- Green paper on the social aspects of the information society.
BRUSSELS - Euro-Mediterranean committee for the Barcelona process meets (To October 9).
GALICIA, Spain - European Commission's DG XVI, Committee of the Regions and Galicia hold seminar on land-use planning in the Atlantic Arc region.
LONDON - Agra Europe holds third annual European meat industry conference "Meat '96". Topics include: EU policy for meat and livestock; EU policy, European meat producation and trade - perspectives from UK and Germany; market outlook for beef, sheepmeat, pigmeat and poultry; BSE and the effects on European meat consumption; rebuilding the image of meat; regaining consumer confidence. Venue: Copthorne Tara Hotel. Contact: Agra Europe (44) 1892 51 18 07.
BRUSSELS - Cogen Europe holds third annual conference on "Europe's cogeneration markets of the future: prospects and challenges" (To October 11). Venue: Sheraton Hotel. Contact: Cogen Europe (322) 772 8290.
BRUSSELS (NEW ITEM) - European Institute for Asian Studies (EIAS) holds conference on "APEC and the EU". Main discussions focus on what APEC is, what it actually does and what it means for EU policy makers and business. Contact: EIAS, Kerstin Bergloef (322) 230 81 22.
AUSTRIA - Austria holds its first elections to the European Parliament, electing 21 deputies.
LUXEMBOURG - ECOFIN Council.
- EMU third stage: preparation for Dublin European Council.
- Renewal of envelopes for eastern Europe, the Mediterranean and ALA.
- Protection of the Community's financial interests: regulation on on-the-spot checks and inspections (final adoption).
- Fight against fraud: transit sector.
- Taxation issues.
LUXEMBOURG - Fisheries Council.
- Proposal for a Council regulation laying down (new) technical measures for the conservation of fishery resources.
- Proposal for a Council regulation on logbooks and landing declarations.
- (possibly) Commission report on direct landing of fish.
- Commission report on fishing and responsible marketing.
- Proposal for Council regulation fixing the conditions of access to waters and resources of the Baltic Sea.
- Proposal for a Council decision on Multi-Annual Guidance Programme (MAGP) IV.
- (possibly) Proposal for a Council regulation on the fixing of management objectives and strategies for certain fisheries for the period 1994-1997.
- (possibly) Proposal for a Council regulation amending for the sixteenth time regulation (EEC) No. 3094/86 laying down certain technical measures for the conservation of fishery resources (drift-nets).
- (possibly) Proposal for a Council regulation amending previous Council regulations opening and providing for the administration of autonomous Community tariff quotas for certain fishery products (1996) or for tariff suspensions (1996).
- (possibly) Proposal for a Council regulation (EC) amending regulation (EEC) No. 2847/93 establishing a control system applicable to the common fisheries policy (establishment of a Community catch-reporting database).
- Proposal for a Council regulation (EC) laying down common marketing standards for certain fishery products.
- Proposal for a Council regulation introducing transitional measures into regulation (EC) No 1624/94 laying down certain technical measures for the conservation of fishery resources in the Mediterranean.
- (possibly) Proposal for a Council regulation (EC) amending regulation (EEC) No. 2847/93 establishing a control system applicable to the common fisheries policy (satellite monitoring).
- Commission report on the application of the basic regulation (No. 3760/92).
- (possibly) Proposal for Council regulation (EC) amending for the fourth time regulation (EEC) No 3699/93 laying down the criteria and conditions for Community structural funding in the fishing and aquaculture sector as well as the processing and marketing of their products.
- (possibly) Commission report on control operations in 1995.
- (possibly) Commission report on MAGP III.
c) Lithuania.
- (possibly) Venice conference on marine management in the Mediterranean, November 1996 - final arrangements.
- (possibly) Negotiating mandate for future South Atlantic Fisheries Organisation (SAFO).
d) Mauritius.
- (possibly) Proposals for the conclusion of a new fisheries agreement with Mauritania.
b) Finland.
- Recommendations for a Council decision authorising the Commission to negotiate fisheries agreements with certain Mediterranean countries.
- Commission report on third countries' activities in Community waters.
CYPRUS - Experts on the implementation of the multiannual rolling work programme for maritime transport in the Mediterranean hold their first meeting.
WINDHOEK, Namibia - EU/Southern Africa Development Council ministerial meeting (To October 15).
LUXEMBOURG - Environment Council.
- Proposal for a decision of the European Parliament and of the Council on the review of the European Community programme of policy and action in relation to the environment and sustainable development "Towards sustainability".
C) No 3254/91 prohibiting the use of leghold traps in the Community and the introduction into the Community of pelts and manufactured goods of certain wild animal species originating in countries which catch them by means of leghold traps or trapping methods which do not meet international humane trapping standards.
- (possibly) Follow-up of the conference on climate change and preparation of EU position for protocol negociations.
- Preparation for the conference on biodiversity.
- Preparation for the eighth meeting of the parties to the Montreal protocol on substances that deplete the ozone layer.
- (possibly) Commission communication on waste strategy.
- Proposal for a Council directive amending directive 90/219/EEC on the continued use of genetically modified micro-organisms.
- Proposal for a Council directive concerning the quality of water intended for human consumption.
b) Draft directive on measures against air pollution by emissions from motor vehicules - amendment of directives 70/229/EEC and 70/156/EEC.
BRUSSELS - Centre for European Policy Studies (CEPS) holds seminar on "Water, politics and security in the Mediterranean Region" (0915/0715 GMT). Venue: Place du Congres 1. Contact: Shireen Hunter, CEPS (322) 229 3911.
LUXEMBOURG - Executive committee of Schengen group on free movement of people meets at ministerial level under Luxembourg presidency. Venue: Kirchberg conference centre. Luxembourg is hoping to achieve admittance of Nordic countries to Schengen accord during its presidency of the group, with signature of accession protocols for Denmark, Finland and Sweden and association protocols for Iceland and Norway at December 19 meeting.
FINLAND - Finland holds municipal elections and the first elections to the European Parliament on the same day.
STRASBOURG - European Parliament plenary session (To October 25).
STRASBOURG - Confederation of European Paper Industries (CEPI) holds conference on "Forest management and paper: growing cooperation". Contact: CEPI (322) 627 4911.
LUXEMBOURG - Tourism Council.
- Commission report on the evaluation of the Community's action plan to assist tourism (1993-1995).
- Proposal for Council decision on a first multiannual programme to assist European tourism (1997-2000) "PHILOXENIA".
- (possibly) Report by the Commission on the situation regarding travel guides and ski instructors in the EU.
MADRID - European Investment Bank (EIB) holds forum on "The Mediterranean: a space for partnership" (1500/1300 GMT) (To October 25).
- The sea, water and cities: preserving a common heritage.
- The banking sector and north-south partnership.
Speakers include: EIB President Sir Brian Unwin; European Commissioner for Relations with the Mediterranean Manuel Marin; MEP Willy de Clercq; Egyptian Minister of State for Economic Affairs Youssef Boutros-Ghali; Greek Deputy Foreign Minister George Romeos; Jordanian Planning Minister Rima Khalaf; Barcelona Mayor and EU Committee of the Regions President Pasqual Maragall. Contact: Yvonne Berghorst, EIB (352) 4379 3154.
LUXEMBOURG - Internal Market Council.
- Transposition.
- Citizens first.
- White paper on approximation of the laws of central and eastern European countries in the field of the internal market.
c) (possibly) the right of third-country nationals to travel in the Community.
- Proposal for a directive on pluralism and media concentration.
- The "Robert Schuman" action.
- Transparency mechanism for national regulations concerning the information society.
- European summer time ends - Central European time changes from GMT +2 to GMT +1.
Russia's Federal Commission on the Capital Market granted investment fund management licences to OAO Credis (Moscow) A/O, ZAO Upravlyayushchy Payevovo Fonda Neftegazeksport and ZAO Pallada Asset Management, the commission said on Tuesday.
Credis is the investment arm of the Credit Suisse Group.
Credis (Moscow) A/O together with Credit Suisse (Moscow) plans to start operations in 1996, distributing investment funds to private and institutional investors in Russia, the company said in a statement.
Credis has subsidiaries in 10 countries and has a range of over 140 funds on offer, it said. It will initially focus on Russian government securities, it said.
The total number of companies with investment fund managing licences is now six, a commission official said.
Identity fraud is on the rise in the United States, with criminals using stolen social security numbers and driver's licenses to take over their victims' jobs and mortgages, a government agency said Tuesday.
"The case histories that we see are frankly frightening," said Janet Steiger, a member of the Federal Trade Commission. "In a flash, the victim's credit record ... is destroyed," and it may take years to undo the damage, she said.
"The bureau ... has become more and more aware of the problem of identity fraud because we are receiving an increasing number of consumer complaints," Steiger said.
She was addressing a meeting hosted by the FTC to start a working group of industry, government and consumer respresentatives on how to tackle the problem.
Victims of such fraud have lost jobs, credit accounts, had cars repossessed, and some have lost mortgages and been denied college tuition loans, Steiger said. "In some cases they have been arrested for crimes committed by the criminal who stole their very identity," she added.
John Smith, a general contractor from Bakersfield, Calif., said it took him a year to sort out the mess after someone grabbed his identity.
The impostor applied for credit at dozens of businesses and put Smith's address as his previous address and a phony address as the current address, so nothing was ever mailed to Smith from any of the fraudulent transactions, Smith said.
"(He) received at least $50,000 in merchandise and services on my identity alone, and I was not the only one he was working," Smith said.
The criminal obtained forged driver's licenses using addresses of recently vacated houses, Smith said.
The man then went into a used car lot asking to test drive a truck and was asked for a driver's license, but claimed he forgot his social security number.
The dealer ran a credit check and several names came up on the screen and the impostor pointed to Smith's name, saying that his address had changed as he had recently moved.
The man was able to get enough information, including the social security number, "to set the chain of events in motion," Smith said.
He noted that access to credit information should only be allowed if the person can supply a social security number.
Solutions mooted at the forum included tightening access to credit reports, stricter and standardized requirements for obtaining driver's licenses and shredding old licenses rather than just throwing them away.
MGE spring wheat futures closed narrowly mixed in quiet conditions as the market attempted to consolidate Monday's gains, traders said.
Dealers noted diminished concern about a possible frost in Canada next week was mildly bearish while Monday's state crop progress reports, which showed a slight decline in spring wheat condition, may have had a minor supportive impact.
"The (spring wheat) harvest is progressing fairly well although rain has slowed it down slightly," one trader said.
September closed unchanged at $4.65 a bushel with other months off 2-1/4 cents to up 1-1/2 cents.
Feed barley futures were unchanged to slightly higher in thin conditions. Dealers noted there was light hedge selling with the U.S. harvest underway but end-user participation remained light.
September barley closed $0.03 per cwt higher at $7.75 with other positions steady to $0.01 up.
Mesirow Financial said it priced $49.9 million of 1996 general obligation corporate purpose tax anticipation notes for Chicago Park District, Ill.
The notes are rated F1-plus.
The notes were priced with a 4.70 percent coupon and a 3.90 percent yield.
The notes are dated 8/29/1996 and due 9/30/1997.
NOTE: Trust's share and NII data refer to net investment income.
Champion Enterprises Inc. has a definitive agreement to acquire Redman Industries Inc., another major manufactured housing company, in a stock deal valued at about $365.5 million, they said Tuesday.
The deal would combine the second- and third-largest companies in the manufactured housing business, creating an entity that would rival Fleetwood Enterprises Inc. as the industry's leader.
Under the agreement, Champion will offer 1.24 shares of its stock for each of Dallas-based Redman's 13.36 million shares outstanding in a tax-free pooling of interests.
Auburn Hills, Mich.-based Champion said it would issue about 17 million shares in the merger and would have 51 million shares outstanding after the deal.
Redman's stock was unchanged at $25.75 on Nasdaq, while Champion edged down 12.5 cents to $21.50 on the New York Stock Exchange at mid-morning.
Walter Young will remain chairman, president and chief executive of Champion. Robert Lipton, president and CEO of Redman, will head Redman, which will become a subsidiary of Champion.
Redman's board of directors has approved the deal and has agreed to recommend that Redman shareholders adopt the merger agreement.
The merger is also subject to approval by both companies' shareholders and regulators.
Redman said it would postpone its annual meeting, scheduled for Wednesday, and call a special shareholder meeting to vote on the deal before the end of the year.
Both companies said they had rescinded their stock repurchase programmes.
Champion, has 6,000 employees and 31 manufacturing plants, while Redman, based in Dallas, has 4,000 employees and 18 manufacturing plants.
The companies had combined annual sales of about $1.5 billion.
The Latvian government on Tuesday launched the first stage of the sale of the country's Ventspils oil terminal by formally handing over its shares in the company to the Latvian Privatisation Agency (LPA).
The government press office said in a statement that Ventspils was handed over to the LPA along with the  Latvian Gas company, energy firm  Latvenergo and news agency  LETA.
Ventspils is a key outlet for Russian crude oil and is one of the most attractive of Latvia's state-owned firms.
In the first half of the year it reloaded around 12.98 million tonnes of oil and oil products.
It expects to reach around 26 million tonnes by the end of the year, a rise of six million tonnes on last year.
Western companies are expected to be interested in the sell-off as well as Russian oil giant LUKoil.
A stake in Latvian Gas has already been sold to a consortium of German companies  Preussen and  Ruhrgas as well as Russian gas firm  Gazprom.
The following is corrected scale and concessions on Francis Howell School District, Mo., $9.9 million general obligation bond deal, purchased by Boatmen's Bank St Louis last week.
New Zealand Finance Minister Bill Birch said on Tuesday an announcement on the sale of state-owned Forestry Corporation would be issued at 3 p.m. (0300 GMT).
The government is expected to announce the sale to a consortium of Fletcher Challenge, Brierley Investments and China International Trust and Investment (Citic), for around NZ$1.8 billion, according to sources.
Brazilian state-owned oil company Petrobras bought $163.7 million worth in materials and equipment in July, the company said.
This brings total expenditure on capital goods to $825.1 million in the first seven months of 1996, Petrobras said.
The exploration and production sectors spent the most in in July at $79.4 million.  The industrial sector spent $41.3 million and engineering spent $33.3 million.
Petrobras bought materials and equipment worth $140.2 million in Brazil, and $23.5 million worth abroad, Petrobras said.
Latest European Union data show grain export commitments between July 1 and August 6 of the new 1996/97 (July/June) campaign were sharply below year-ago levels, member country officials said on Tuesday.
The figures, based on delivered export certificates, showed grain sales plunged to 1.432 million tonnes from 4.206 million.
Flour export commitments, however, reached 804,000 tonnes against 743,000 tonnes during the same period last year.
Commercial barley exports stood at 205,000 tonnes against 632,000 tonnes.
Since August 6, the EU has granted 94,250 tonnes of soft wheat, 3,675 tonnes of barley and 2,500 tonnes of oats through its weekly grain tender system.
Australian resources giant, The Broken Hill Pty Co Ltd, said on Tuesday it was discussing with several companies the sale of its majority-owned Syama gold mine in the West African nation of Mali.
"There have been some discussions about the sale of (the mine) and they are continuing," BHP spokesman Tony Wells told Reuters.
Wells declined to comment on the value or likely price of the mine or when it was likely to conclude the sale.
"It is one of the companies we have been holding discussions with," he said.
Syama, currently Mali's only commercial mine, has annual production of 180,000 ounces a year.
BHP shares closed on Tuesday down four cents to A$17.50.
NATO blew up 24 tonnes of contraband Bosnian Serb ammunition on Tuesday in a fourth day of Operation Volcano that sent a towering column of dirt and smoke 4,000 feet (1,220 metres) into the air.
About 2,000 NATO-led peace implementation troops were despatched to the area from Saturday to ensure the blasts in special pits proceeded safely.
Even as the operation went ahead, NATO officers sought to allay Bosnian Serb concern about any environmental effect of the explosions on the local water table and fielded complaints about broken windows.
"Serb worries about the local water table have halted work in one set of pits for the moment but the operation continues in a second set of pits," NATO's Lieutenant-Colonel Max Marriner told Reuters.
"Operation Volcano is proceeding even as we respond to local environmental concerns. Theoretically we could destroy all the material in the second set of pits or find a third site. The material will be destroyed one way or the other."
A routine NATO patrol discovered an estimated 400 tonnes of small arms ammunition, anti-tank and anti-personnel mines in a schoolhouse in Margetici, near Sokolac, on August 5.
Because the Margetici site had not been declared to NATO as required under the terms of the Dayton peace agreement, troops confiscated the material and prepared to destroy it in an operation codenamed "Volcano".
NATO engineers dug two sets of blast-pits in a remote area near Margetici to contain the exploding munitions in lots of a few tonnes each.
Altogether 24 tonnes of munitions were destroyed on Monday and another 24 tonnes on Tuesday.
On Monday the Serbs complained that blasts from one set of pits might contaminate water resources in the area.
Blasting continued in the other set while NATO engineers considered the Serb complaint.
The Mayor of Sokolac saw NATO officers in Margetici on Tuesday to renew complaints about the water table, and about broken windows in his town.
He said the damage included windows in the Orthodox church, although windows much closer to the blast site were not damaged on Monday or Tuesday.
But the commander of NATO land forces in Bosnia, Lieutenant-General Sir Michael Walker, was willing to hear more about the water table impact. "We are taking the issue seriously indeed," Walker told reporters in Margetici.
"We've done quite alot of what I might call superficial geological examination and it seems to us the claim that it could do damage to the water table is probably not correct."
Walker said if there were any chance of environmental damage NATO would not use the suspect set of pits.
Operation Volcano is expected to continue for the rest of the week.
Earnings figures refer to net profit before extraordinary items in millions of guilders unless otherwise stated.
Estimates contributed by: Amstgeld, Bangert Pontier, BZW, Delta Lloyd, Generale Bank, ING Barings, Kempen & Co, MeesPierson, Van Lanschot, Rabo/IRIS, and Strating.
Banks and brokers interested in contributing to this regular Reuters survey can contact the Amsterdam newsroom on +31-20-504-5000 or fax their forecasts to +31-20-504 5040.
NOTE - Mycal Corporation is a major supermarket chain.
Nigerian authorities on Tuesday described as "crazy" reports that 16 activists from the Ogoni region had been arrested.
"It is crazy to say Ogonis have been arrested for being MOSOP (Movement for the Survival of Ogoni People) members, any time an Ogoni is arrested for anything they have to say it is political. I am not aware of these arrests at all," Fidelis Agbiki, press secretary to the local military administrator told Reuters by telephone from Port Harcourt.
MOSOP on Monday said a total of sixteen Ogoni activists had been arrested in the past month.
"Less than three weeks before the scheduled visit of the Commonwealth Ministerial Action Group to Nigeria, a new wave of arrests of MOSOP activists has begun," the group said in a statement issued in London.
Nigeria became an international pariah after MOSOP leader Ken Saro-Wiwa and eight other Ogoni activists were executed for murder last November, provoking international protests and Nigeria's suspension from the Commonwealth.
MOSOP said that the first of the new wave of arrests was Akina Deesor, producer of a radio station in Ogoni. Deesor was detained on July 31 for broadcasting an Ogoni song.
Fifteen more people were arrested on August 13 and accused of planning to seek meetings with the Commonwealth mission, it added.
"Victims of the latest arrests are detained at unknown destinations and MOSOP believes they must have been tortured and kept in terrible conditions," the statement said.
Earlier this year, Nigeria refused to allow a Commonwealth fact-finding mission into the country, allowing instead a team from the United Nations.
However, Nigeria has now agreed to allow a Commonwealth visit, which is expected next month, although no date has yet been officially announced.
"We are not guilty of 'Ogoniphobia'," said Agbiki. "As we don't even know if the Commonwealth will visit here how can we arrest people for trying to meet them?"
The U.N. team called for reform of some laws but backed a plan for restoring democracy by 1988, which the Commonwealth group had called "inadequate".
"The visit of the UN fact-finding team to Nigeria last April occasioned similar repression in Ogoni and the reprisal actions that followed that visit cost the Ogonis two lives and several detentions," MOSOP said.
The 500,000 Ogonis live on oil-rich land, which MOSOP says has been ruined by the activities of producing companies.
Shell, the largest multinational oil company in Nigeria halted production there in 1993 after acts of sabotage by Ogonis.
The Mexican Rice Council is firmly against the lifting of a four-year ban on Asian rice imports, the director of the private sector grouping said Tuesday.
"We radically oppose the lifting of the embargo," Antonio Lajud told Reuters in a telephone interview.
The council represents the country's 13,000 rice growers and the 23 major businesses that control 98 percent of all Mexican rice sales.
"We have not even been invited to the negotiations (to lift the ban)," Lajud said.
Talks are allegedly on-going between the Agriculture Ministry and representatives from Asian governments, including Thailand, he said.
"We are not interested in buying inferior quality rice from Thailand, or Vietnam, or wherever...if the ban is lifted we just will not buy the rice," he said.
There will be important protests by the industry," he added.
"The ban was implemented in the first place because of the serious infestations Asian imports caused in our own rice fields...we have managed to turn that around and have our sights set on self-sufficiency," he added.
Mexico bought about 40,000 of medium grade 10-15 percent Thai white rice a year before the 1992 ban. Vietnam also sold Mexico rice in the early 1990s, largely by heavily undercutting U.S. rice prices.
Mexico consumes around 400,000 tonnes of white rice, and currently produces about half that amount and imports the other 50 percent from the United States.
"This council was founded in 1994 to bring order to the market that followed the infected imports and we have done that...now they want to return to chaos again," Lajud said, adding that Agriculture Ministry officials were refusing to answer his phone calls.
Agriculture Ministry spokesmen were not immediately available for comment.
Lajud said he had heard that the ban could be lifted as soon as August 26. Such moves are published in the government's Official Gazette, and rarely given much media publicity beforehand.
--Chris Aspin, Mexico City newsroom (525) 7289530.
Vietnam is expected to place two prominent intellectuals on trial this week nine months after the pair were arrested in a crackdown on dissent ahead of June's Communist Party Congress.
Dissident sources and Hanoi-based diplomats said Le Hong Ha, a former high-ranking party member, and Ha Si Phu, a leading academic, would appear in court in Hanoi on Thursday.
The two men are being charged under a catch-all section of Vietnam's penal code involving violations of national security. If convicted they face likely jail terms of between two and seven years. In serious cases the term can be extended to 15 years.
Their arrests late last year were widely interpreted as part of a broader crackdown on dissent as the Hanoi authorities prepared for the June congress.
Ha Si Phu, also known as Nguyen Xuan Tu, was detained following an interview with a foreign radio station and after distributing documents in which it is said he openly criticised the Hanoi government.
Le Hong Ha, whose also used the name Le Van Quy, was expelled from the ruling Communist Party in June last year after voicing support for an outspoken communist dissident Hoang Minh Chinh. Hoang Minh Chinh had been jailed a few weeks earlier.
Several international human rights groups condemned the arrests at the time.
The U.S.-based group Human Rights Watch/Asia said Vietnam -- which signed the International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights in 1982 -- had placed itself in violation of international laws.
Official confirmation was not available on Tuesday and it was not clear whether outside observers would be allowed to attend the trial.
But foreign diplomats said the trial -- the first such case since the congress -- was likely to be watched for indications of the prevailing political mood in Vietnam.
The late-June conclave, the country's most important political event in years, saw a shake-up of the party leadership and the appointment of a number of security and defence-related personnel to prominent politburo positions.
But seven weeks after that event the picture remains hazy, and Hanoi's political rumour mill has fallen quiet. In some cases newly-appointed personnel have yet to take up their expected posts.
In a faxed statement the Paris-based pressure group Alliance Vietnam Liberte said Ha Si Phu's case was being followed closely by groups across Europe and North America.
It called on Hanoi to allow independent observers to attend the trial. The statement made no mention of Le Hong Ha's case.
Maxwell Shoe Co Inc said on Tuesday it completed the acquisition of all worldwide rights to Sam & Libby Inc's trademarks and trade names for $5.5 million.
The completion follows approval of the deal by Sam & Libby shareholders last week, the company said.
Maxwell announced the agreement in June.
Japan's Asahi Glass Co Ltd will invest $100 million to produce sheet glass in Vietnam from 1998, a Japanese newspaper reported on Tuesday.
The Nihon Keizai Shimbun said that upon approval from the Vietnamese government, Asahi Glass would set up a joint venture with Vietnamese partners to build a plant in Ho Chi Minh City capable of producing 500 tonnes of sheet glass a day.
The products would be sold in Vietnam and exported to Laos, Cambodia and Burma, it said.
Officials of Asahi Glass were not immediately available for comment.
Drug use among teenagers jumped 78 percent from 1992 to 1995, a federal study said Tuesday, prompting Republican charges that the Clinton administration was losing the war on teenage drug use.
Republican presidential candidate Bob Dole, campaigning in Louisville, Kentucky, called the report's findings "nothing short of a national tragedy" and said he would make the war on drugs "priority No. 1 once again."
"The statistics confirm an upward spiral of drug abuse across the nation since President Clinton took office," Sen. Orrin Hatch, a Utah Republican who chairs the Senate Judiciary Committee, said in a letter to the White House.
Hatch released a summary of the Health and Human Services Department's 1995 National Household Survey on Drug Abuse. It showed that while overall drug use figures were fairly stable, youth drug use rose 78 percent between 1992 and 1995 -- 24 percent from 1994 to 1995 alone.
White House spokesman Mike McCurry said the report was cause for concern but administration efforts to curb drug imports were on the right track.
The HHS report said 10.4 percent of youths aged 12 to 17 used drugs on a monthly basis. Marijuana use was up 105 percent in 1995 from 1992 and up 37 percent between 1994 and 1995. Use of LSD and other hallucinogens jumped 183 percent since 1992 and 54 percent from 1994 to 1995, while monthly use of cocaine soared 166 percent just in 1994-95.
In a letter to Gen. Barry McCaffrey, who heads White House drug control efforts, Hatch said: "I find this data ... very disturbing. The data clearly reflects a continuing trend of increased drug abuse throughout the United States."
HHS officials declined to comment or confirm Hatch's figures before the report's scheduled release time on Tuesday. But McCurry said, "The figures related to drug use among young people are obviously of great concern, and that's why we have a strategy to deal with that."
He said he believed the administration's strategy to fight drugs was on the right track. "We think it's the right strategy to control use, to control imports," he said.
"Above all, this has to be a bipartisan effort that all join into," he added. "One thing we can't do is to turn drug use among young people into a political football because it sends the wrong message to kids -- then they'll just think it's just an issue for the politicians and not something that they have to take responsibility for."
The summary of another HHS study released by Hatch showed the number of hospital emergency room admissions stemming from marijuana use rose 96 percent between 1992 and 1995 and rose 17 percent between 1994 and 1995.
Emergency room admissions related to heroine use rose 58 percent from 1992 to 1995 and 19 percent in 1994-95.
That study -- the Drug Abuse Warning Network -- monitors numbers and patterns of drug-related emergencies and deaths in 21 metropolitan areas across the country.
Jim Copple, president of the Community Anti-Drug Coalitions of America, said blame should be shared by Republicans and Democrats for cutting funds for drug control programmes and losing interest in the issue.
"I think over the last four or five years, the drug issue itself has fallen off the national radar screen," he said. He criticised the entertainment industry for "starting to glamorize drug use once again" and had a harsh word for parents as well.
"Fifty-seven percent of baby-boomer parents who are now raising adolescents used drugs themselves, even though 75 percent of them clearly don't want their kids using drugs," Copple said.
Reviewed financial results for the first six months ending June 30, 1996.
NOTES: Operating costs for second quarter 287.45 million baht vs 145.57 million baht and for six months 554.2 million baht vs 271.63 million baht. Shipping costs for Q2 amounted to 372.53 million baht vs 288.00 million baht and for six months 732.67 million baht vs 561.18 million baht.
NEW YORK, Aug 20 - The dollar rose against the Japanese yen Tuesday after a sharp drop in the nation's trade deficit overshadowed fleeting disappointment that the Federal Reserve left interest rates unchanged.
The Commerce Department reported the United States trade gap shrank 23 percent in June as imports of merchandise and petroleum fell sharply.
While the trade shortfall with Japan rose 3.6 percent in June, the second-quarter deficit of $10.5 billion with Japan was the smallest quarterly deficit in five years.
The trend helped the dollar by decreasing the amount of dollars foreign exporters will need to sell for their local currencies.
"It was a good trade number," said Greg Pearman, chief foreign exchange dealer at Credit Commerciale de France in New York. "There was definitely one huge buyer today who right after the (trade) number bought a lot of dollars for yen."
After the release of the trade figures, the dollar climbed above 108 yen, where it stayed for the rest of the New York session.
The Fed's decision to hold interest rates steady only pressured the dollar temporarily in the afternoon because most traders had expected no change in monetary policy anyway.
"It's a fractional disappointment, basically," said Chris Turner, a currency strategist at the I.D.E.A. Inc. consulting firm. "We saw recently a survey of 37 primary (currency) dealers in the U.S. (and) not one of them were going for a Fed rate hike today."
In late New York trading, the dollar settled at 108.35 yen, up from 107.80 yen late on Monday. The dollar rose slightly to 1.4883 German marks from 1.4880 marks.
The dollar strengthened slightly against the yen in Asia after Eisuke Sakakibara, director-general of Japan's Ministry of Finance International Finance Bureau said in an interview with the Nikkei Finance Daily newspaper that even if the dollar rises above 110 yen, there is only a small chance of such a rise having an adverse effect on the Japanese economy.
Sakakibara has been dubbed "Mr. Yen" by the currency market because he is seen as the key person behind a rise in the dollar back up above 100 yen last year from its record low of 79.75 yen in April 1995.
The British pound rose to $1.5480 from $1.5455 late on Monday.
The dollar ended little changed at 1.2070 Swiss francs.
It inched up to Canadian $1.3733 from C$1.3728.
For someone who went from carrying camera packs as an assistant on "Entertainment Tonight" to turning a $25,000 first film into a $10 million hit, Edward Burns is a remarkably laid-back guy.
Handsome in an old-fashioned movie star way, with his hair slicked back, Burns, 28, may be among the brightest writer-director-actors in movies today but his feet are still on the ground. As evidence, consider the second film, opening this month, from the man who made 1995 Sundance Film Festival winner "The Brothers McMullen."
For the Queens, New York, native who has been dubbed "an Irish Woody Allen," "She's the One" is a return to what Burns knows best, another tale of Irish-Catholic brothers and the women who drive them crazy.
Burns cites writer Saul Bellow as support for his interest in Irish-American guys like himself. "Bellow once said he was constantly writing the same book, again and again, trying to get it right. Basically I like to start with characters and just document the world I see: How these people look, what and how they think. I want to do that as honestly as I can."
Burns' $3.5 million budget is about 14 times as much as he spent on his first movie, but he recruited "McMullen" veterans Maxine Bahns and Mike McGlone, along with himself, to star with small screen regulars Jennifer Aniston ("Friends"), Cameron Diaz ("The Mask") and John Mahoney ("Frasier").
"You can't compare the two, this is better on every level. Me, Mike and Max have all jumped up," Burns said of his films, sitting in a Washington hotel room during a press weekend.
Bahns, 25, has been his lover for seven years. Like the woman she plays in "She's the One," she was a graduate student with no interest in acting until she was cast in "Brothers McMullen."
Since she's REALLY the one, on screen and in real life, why not make it legal? "She's not interested in marriage. I beg, I plead," Burns said with a smile. "We're not going anywhere, there's no hurry. And," he added, sounding much like one of his screen characters, "I'm afraid of the legal document -- a house has to follow and a kid. I need a couple of more kids? I'm still a kid."
Since "McMullen" was an American hit, it has been shown around the world. "We did $7 in Turkey but the fact it was released in Turkey blows my mind," Burns said.
He and his girlfriend have moved from "an apartment the size of a closet" into a Greenwich Village building with a doorman and they no longer eat peanut butter three nights a week. Fame has also meant a trip to Ireland for Guinness beer. "I was a judge in a 'Win a Pub' contest," Burns explained.
But success primarily means Burns has the opportunity to make the kind of movies he wants -- without interference. He credits Robert Redford, father of the Sundance Film Festival and his executive producer, with helping on that score.
"At Sundance, when we won the Grand Jury prize, Redford told me, 'You're entering a really strange place and Hollywood is a weird town. If you ever have a question, give me a call. If I can help you I will,'" Burns said.
"I had full creative control, including final cut," Burns added. "I never heard from the studio until we showed the final film and they said, 'Let's go.'"
Next spring, for his third picture, Burns is planning to change direction slightly and do a comedy-drama without Max or Mike. "I only know I'll be in it," he said, meaning it will still be an Eddie Burns movie.
Citibank Espana has issued a total of 25,000 warrants, on 3-month MIBOR, lead manager Citibank NA said.
A threat by the Russian commander in Chechnya to force rebels who have seized much of the capital Grozny out of the city has cast a shadow over hopes for a peaceful end to the 20-month-old conflict.
Oct 1991 - Former Soviet air force general Dzhokhar Dudayev wins regional presidential poll, declares Chechnya independent.
Nov 1991 - Russian President Boris Yeltsin declares a state of emergency in the southern territory and sends troops to the Chechen capital Grozny. They pull out after three days.
Spring/Summer 1994 - Russia, accusing Dudayev of allowing Chechnya to become a haven for terrorists, urges Chechens to topple him.
Nov 1994 - Moscow-backed Chechens attack Grozny. Russia sends troops to Chechen borders.
Dec 11, 1994 - Russia sends troops to Chechnya, starting military campaign to crush Dudayev's independence movement.
Jan 1995 - Russian troops and armour move into central Grozny after intense artillery, rocket and tank bombardments reduce the Chechen capital to ruins.
Feb 1995 - Separatists abandon ruins of Grozny.
March 1995 - The Organisation for Security and Cooperation in Europe sets up Chechnya mission. Dudayev threatens attacks inside Russia.
June 14, 1995 - About 100 armed rebels storm Russian town of Budennovsk, 70 km (45 miles) from Chechnya. They kill scores of people and escape to a hospital with hundreds of hostages.
June 18, 1995 - Russian Prime Minister Viktor Chernomyrdin negotiates with the rebels by telephone. Russia orders a halt to military operations in Chechnya and some hostages are freed.
June 19, 1995 - Gunmen leave Budennovsk in a convoy of buses with some of the hostages and the gunmen return to Chechnya in triumph.
Sept-Oct 1995 - Several attacks are staged on motorcades of politicians and military officials in and near Grozny.
Dec 14, 1995 - Rebels take back Gudermes, Chechnya's second city, but are forced out about a week later by Russian troops, with hundreds reported killed. Fighting is worst in months.
Dec 17, 1995 - Russian-backed Chechen leader Doku Zavgayev wins election to head Chechnya's administration, but there are many reports of widespread electoral fraud.
Jan 9, 1996 - Chechen fighters seize hostages in neighbouring Dagestan, then move to Pervomaiskoye where there is a four-day stand-off with Russian troops. Russian forces flatten the village with Grad missiles, but most of the rebels escape.
Feb 15, 1996 - Yeltsin, announcing his candidacy for a second term in office, says Chechnya foray was "maybe one of our mistakes". He says he is studying options for peace but rules out withdrawal of Russian forces or massive use of force.
March 6, 1996 - Rebels attack Grozny, holding some areas for several days. The army appears to respond, beginning several weeks of air and artillery assaults on suspected rebel villages.
March 31, 1996 - Yeltsin announces a halt to wide-scale military action, a partial withdrawal of troops and an offer of indirect talks with the rebels. But fighting continues.
April 21, 1996 - Dudayev is killed in rocket attack. Separatists announce his death on April 23 and say he has been buried. Rebel vice-president Zelimkhan Yandarbiyev takes over.
April 25, 1996 - Yandarbiyev pledges at news conference to avenge Dudayev and vows to press on with independence drive.
May 22, 1996 - Interfax news agency says up to 40 Russian troops have been killed in battle for rebel stronghold of Bamut.
May 24, 1996 - Top Russian military official announces Russian troops have seized Bamut after a year's fighting.
May 27, 1996 - Yeltsin and Yandarbiyev hold talks in Moscow and agree a truce, which held for about six weeks.
May 28, 1996 - Yeltsin visits Russian troops in Grozny.
July 3, 1996 - Yeltsin reelected for a second term as Russian president.
Aug 6, 1996 - Chechen rebels enter Grozny, triggering heaviest fighting for more than a year.
Aug 12, 1996 - Lebed flies to Chechnya and agrees with rebel chief-of-staff Aslan Maskhadov to arrange cease-fire. Russian military commanders in the region fail to work out a clear deal but a truce holds out.
Aug 14, 1996 - Yeltsin dissolves the State Commission on Chechnya, headed by Chernomyrdin, and gives Lebed sweeping powers to resolve the conflict.
Aug 15, 1996 - Lebed meets Yandarbiyev in Chechnya. The two say they were encouraged by talks and would seek an end to military confrontation.
Aug 19, 1996 - Russian military commander in Chechnya General Konstantin Pulikovsky gives civilians 48 hours to leave Grozny and threatens all-out bombardment to drive out rebels. Yeltsin orders Lebed to restore Russian control over Grozny before the end of the month.
Aug 20 - Security Council says it doubts the authenticity of Yeltsin's orders in Chechnya. Aides say the president is taking a short break in northwestern Russia.
Taipei gave a positive but cautious response to China's release on Tuesday of rules governing direct shipping links across the Taiwan Strait, even though such links are still banned by Taiwan.
"Of course we are happy to see it accomplished, but would prefer to comment after we have more details," said an official with the island's Ministry of Transportation and Communications.
The island's top agency for China policymaking, the cabinet-level Mainland Affairs Council, gave a cooler response, saying Beijing's rules were belated and "mingled with sensitive political issues".
The regulations, effective from Tuesday, allow only wholly Chinese-owned or Taiwan-owned shipping companies or joint ventures involving Chinese or Taiwanese shipowners to sail between the two sides, Beijing's Xinhua news agency said.
"The regulations...are meant to promote cargo and passenger transport between the two sides of the Straits and accelerate the development of direct mail service, trade, and air and shipping links across the Straits," Xinhua said.
Hong Kong's Beijing-backed Wen Wei Po daily said China's southeastern ports at Xiamen and Fuzhou would be the first to be opened to direct shipping links with Taiwan.
"The conditions for (establishing) direct shipping links are ripe," the newspaper said.
Taipei's Mainland Affairs Council urged Beijing to be practical and remove barriers that have prevented direct links.
"...The mainland's direct links plan is still mingled with sensitive political issues," it said. "We hope the mainland side can adopt a practical attitude to remove obstacles blocking links across the strait." It did not elaborate.
Taiwan has banned direct air and shipping links with China since Chiang Kai-shek's Nationalists lost the civil war to the Chinese communists and fled to the island in 1949.
China views Taiwan as a renegade province.
With tensions easing since the late 1980s, civilian aircraft and vessels have skirted the ban by stopping over in Hong Kong, Macau or other third countries.
To fulfil its ambition of becoming an Asia-Pacific business hub, Taiwan proposed in 1995 to set up an offshore transshipment centre at southern Kaohsiung port from which ships would be allowed to sail directly between Taiwan and China.
The project has been delayed by sovereignty issues, with squabbling over Chinese and Taiwanese flags and documents that would bear the names and marks from both governments and might be interpreted by either side as reciprocal recognition.
"It (Beijing's plan) is similar to our offshore transshipment centre plan," transport ministry spokesman Hsu Chieh-kuei said on state television.
"It will be good if we can find a way to resolve the sea links problem across the Taiwan Strait," Hsu said. "We will carefully study the counterproposals."
Taiwan investors, who have poured more than $20 billion into China, have pressured the government to establish such links to save transportation costs.
"This is a breakthrough," Taiwan global shipping giant Evergreen Marine Corp said in a statement. "The company welcomes the decision from the business point of view."
The reserve money range for August was earlier set between 31.93 and 32.63 billion zlotys.
Since the start of the year the central bank has missed its monthly target only twice with reserve money exceeding the target in March and falling below the set goal in July.
The NBP set the monthly reserve money level as its operational goal for this year through which it wants to control money supply and, consequently, price growth.
Reserve money, also referred to as high powered money or monetary base, comprises cash in circulation, cash in vaults and banks' obligatory reserves.
Under the NBP's policy, reserve money levels are of higher priority than short-term market interest rates.
European Union leaders charting the way forward for the bloc are likely to agree to the catch-all concept of "flexibility", a leading British think-tank warned on Wednesday.
But a general enabling clause is not likely to be accepted in inter-governmental conference (IGC) negotiations. Instead, "flexibility" is likely to be incorporated in the EU treaty on a case-by-case basis.
The main reason is that the term means different things to the EU's political leaders.
"In the initial stages of the inter-governmental conference "flexibility" has appeared as the big idea in the discussions," Frank Vibert, director of the European Policy Forum, wrote in a pamphlet.
But he said the terms masked a division between member states wanting a looser Europe and those believing flexibility would enable an inner core of countries to pioneer new ways of extending the powers of  Community institutions.
Vibert noted that French President Jacques Chirac, German Chancellor Helmut Kohl and British Prime Minister John Major all support "flexibility".
"Each means something different," he wrote.
Major has claimed credit in Britain for negotiating the country's right to opt out of two key EU policies -- the "Social Chapter' which is designed to lay down basic employment rights, and the planned single currency.
France and Germany are members of the so-called Schengen group linking 10 of the EU's member states which is designed to promote freedom of movement by abolishing border controls.
However, said Vibert, the two countries disagree over control of the EU, with Germany seeing the European Commission developing into a government of Europe but France wanting power to remain with the Council of Ministers.
"The limitation of concepts such as flexibility...is that they may lead to agreements between governments which are simply viewed as fudge," Vibert said.
He said parliaments and public opinion might not accept political fudges on matters of great importance to them. "It is an illusion to think that great differences about the shape of European political union can be contained for much longer."
Vibert said flexibility might be used to allow certain member states to cooperate in new areas, for instance the tackling of crime.
But in each instance, hard questions must be faced about about whether EU finance should be committed and whether the bloc's institutions should become involved.
Copies of the report -- "Structured Flexibility in the European Union" -- are available from the European Policy Forum, 20 Queen Ann's Gate, London SW1A 9AA, England. Tel: +44 171 222-0733. The report costs 12 British pounds.
Olympic bomb suspect Richard Jewell passed a lie detector test in which he denied any involvement in the deadly July 27 attack, the Atlanta Journal- Constitution reported on Tuesday.
A polygrapher hired by the security guard's lawyers told the newspaper that the test results showed Jewell had nothing to do with the pipe bombing that left two people dead and more than 100 injured at downtown Atlanta's Centennial Olympic Park.
"He didn't do it," Dick Rackleff, a former FBI agent now in private practice, said. "There's not any doubt in my mind. He had no knowledge about the bomb. The tests show he absolutely was not involved."
Jewell, 33, who was hailed as a hero in the immediate aftermath of the bombing, still remains a suspect in the FBI's investigation. He has steadfastly maintained his innocence.
While working as a security guard at an AT&T Olympic pavilion near the park, he discovered the green knapsack that contained the pipe bomb and helped police clear crowds from the area before it detonated.
In recent weeks, members of his legal team increasingly have gone public to support their client.
His criminal lawyer, Jack Martin, held a news conference near the bomb site to announce to reporters that the timing of the explosion and the bomb threat call to police ruled out any involvement by Jewell.
On Monday two civil attorneys newly hired by the security guard said they were looking into the possibility of suing the FBI, the news media and others over the way Jewell had been treated since the attack.
The polygrapher told the Journal-Constitution he spent 15 hours with Jewell on Aug. 4 and 15 while conducting the lie detector test and a pre-test interview.
Rackleff said he would stake his reputation on the findings. "It's not a matter of choosing sides. It's a matter of establishing facts," he said.
Traders said shares of Rexene Corp fell after hours on Tuesday after Huntsman Corp said it would drop its offer to acquire the company.
Privately held Huntsman said it is dropping a $460 million unsolicited bid for Rexene after two of its offers were rejected. Huntsman said it was washing its hands of the matter and would not launch a hostile tender offer for Rexene.
Traders said the after-hours market otherwise was quiet. CompuServe Corp posted first-quarter earnings but the stock did not move off its closing price of 13-1/2, down 1-/8 on the day.
The New York Stock Exchange said its session one volume was 9,100 shares compared to 32,200 shares on Monday. There was no session two volume compared to Monday's 101,300 share volume, the NYSE said.
The American Stock Exchange said there was no after-hours volume.
Burundi's new Tutsi strongman Pierre Buyoya is opposed to any expulsions of Rwandan Hutu refugees from northern Burundi and has sent a team to investigate the reasons behind their movement, his spokesman said on Tuesday.
But in Rwanda, aid agencies prepared to receive thousands more Rwandan Hutus, who say they are fleeing Magara camp in northern Burundi because of intimidation and beatings by Buyoya's Tutsi-dominated army.
In Brussels, the European Union called on the ethnically divided Central African country to seek peace.
The EU statement issued by Ireland -- which holds the rotating presidency of the 15-nation bloc -- said that the EU was deeply concerned about the situation in Burundi.
Buyoya's spokesman Jean-Luc Ndizeye told Reuters by telephone that the new president of Burundi remained committed to international conventions on the protection of refugees.
"The president expects refugees to stay where they are. He does not expect any movements at all today," Ndizeye said.
In Butare, aid agencies prepared to receive some 4,500 refugees on Tuesday. "We are expecting some 4,500 refugees today (Tuesday)," Stephano Severe, head of the U.N. High Commissioner for Refugees (UNHCR) in Butare, told Reuters.
Shortly after the July 25 coup that brought him to power, Buyoya ordered an end to expulsions of Rwandan Hutu refugees.
Ndizeye said the latest movements by thousands of refugees from the north were not part of official policy but were caused by panic on the part of the refugees after the army entered Magara on Sunday to search for arms.
He said Burundian army position near Magara had come under fire on Saturday and Sunday forcing soldiers to move into the camp to search for weapons and ammunition.
"It is not the position of our government to send them (refugees) back. They have decided to leave on their own, many panicked when the army searched the camp. They are welcome to stay for as long as they want," Ndizeye said.
He said any one found guilty of inciting refugees to leave against their will would be punished. "The president is not going back on his word to protect refugees," he said.
The exodus of Rwandan refugees back to Rwanda picked up after troops killed three refugees at Magara camp. Refugees accused the army of killing them as part of a campaign of intimidation.
Army spokesman Lieutenant-Colonel Jean Minani confirmed on Tuesday that soldiers killed the three but said they fired only after one refugee pulled out a revolver and shot at them.
UNHCR's Severe said he expected Magara, the biggest of Rwandan refugee camps in Burundi with an initial population of more than 45,000 people, to be emptied within two to three days.
"We have got 65 trucks at the ready today (Tuesday) and if the returns continue like this, it will only be a matter of two to three days before we finish the repatriations from Magara," he said.
Some 7,000 refugees returned to Rwanda on Monday leaving around 24,000 at Magara and 13,000 at Rukuramigabo Camp in neighbouring Kirundo province, Paul Stromberg, regional spokesman for the UNHCR, told Reuters.
Around two million Rwandan Hutus fled their homeland to Zaire, Tanzania and Burundi in 1994 after Tutsi rebels defeated the Hutu army and ousted the government, blamed for the genocide of up to one million Tutsis and moderate Hutus.
Burundian authorities accuse the refugees of supporting Hutu rebels waging a guerrilla war against the Burundian army in which 150,000 people have died since 1993.
About one third of the $380 million investment in Latin America announced by Chrysler Corp on Tuesday will come from the automaker's suppliers, Chrysler Chairman Robert Eaton said.
Eaton told a news conference that several suppliers have committed to build new Latin American plants to support production of Dodge Dakota pickup trucks in Brazil and Jeep Cherokee sport/utility vehicles in Argentina.
Others suppliers supporting the Chrysler expansion in Latin America include Dana Corp, Johnson Controls Inc, Lear Corp, United Technologies Corp, PPG Industries Inc and Goodyear Tire & Rubber Co, Chrysler executives said.
Construction will start by the end of the year and production will start in 1998. The plant will build 12,000 units in its first year and ultimately will have a capacity of 40,000 vehicles.
Chrysler also announced that it will expand production of the plant it is now building in Argentina to produce Jeep Cherokee sport/utility vehicles there, a project that represents an additional investment of $65 million.
The plant will add Cherokee production in mid-1998 at an initial annual volume of 6,000 vehicles, growing to 10,000 in five years.
Eaton said the investments marks a major committment to the Mercosur trade bloc, which includes Brazil, Argentina, Uruguay and Paraguay.
"We think this is a major growth area," Eaton said. "It's politically and economically a stable region, we think with particularly rising consumer buying power."
He said annual vehicle sales in the four-country region will increase from about two million units currently to about 2.5 million by the end of the decade.
He said it is necessary for Chrysler to assemble vehicles locally to participate in the market and the trucks earmarked on Tuesday for production will meet the the Mercosur requirement for 60 percent local content within three years.
He said Chrysler's growth in the region will be cautious.
"We are targeting very specific market segments, we don't have any interest, or desire to offer a vehicle for every possible application."
Brazil's central bank announced a dollar buy tender in the commercial foreign exchange market, dealers said.
The real was quoted at 1.0140 reais per dollar before the auction, they added.
Italian industrial producer prices rose 0.6 percent year-on-year in June, the national statistics institute ISTAT said in a statement.
Roy F. Weston Inc said on Tuesday the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers has granted the company three year contract with a maximum value of $15 million for environmental architect-engineer services.
Weston will conduct hazardous, toxic and radioactive waste investigations as well as engineering and remedial designs for military and civilian sites in the Mid-Atlantic states, the company said.
The Bank of Canada said the average yield at this week's auction of C$3.6 billion of 91-day Government of Canada treasury bills due November 21, 1996 was 4.033 percent, down from 4.174 percent last week.
The average yield on C$1.7 billion of 175-day T-bills due February 13, 1997 was 4.288 percent, down from 4.334 percent last week, and on C$1.4 billion of 364-day T-bills due August 21, 1997 was 4.537 percent, down from 4.669 percent.
Japan's key three-month certificates of deposit (CDs) rate fell to 0.60 percent in late morning on Tuesday, its lowest since June 26, traders said.
About 30 billion yen worth of three-month CDs was issued at 0.60 percent in late morning Tokyo, traders said.
Three-month CDs had been issued at 0.62 percent and 0.61 percent earlier in the morning, before falling to 0.60 percent, the city bank trader said.
A broker said about 110 billion yen worth of three-month CDs was issued at 0.62 percent, while about 40 billion yen worth of three-month CDs was issued at 0.61 percent.
About 140 billion yen worth of two-month CDs was issued at 0.60 percent. The rate was down from Monday's 0.61 percent.
One-month CDs were tagged with a sell quote of 0.51 percent. The rate was unchanged from Monday.
The key overnight call rate rose slightly in the morning to 0.48 percent, up from Monday's 0.46 percent.
Traders said this was due to increased fund demand on a bond settlement day.
Key December three-month Euroyen futures on TIFFE stood at 99.16 as of 0249 GMT, down from Monday's 99.19.
"The December Euroyen futures' slight weakness is due to concern about the current high level of prices," a trader for a second city bank said.
Lingering concern about a possible interest rate rise at Tuesday's Federal Open Market Committee (FOMC) meeting is also discouraging further buying, the trader said.
Brazil's inflation as measured by the Economic Research Institute (Fipe) was 0.83 percent in the July 16-August 15 period, down from 1.02 percent in the previous four-week period, a Fipe official said.
Juarez Rizzieri said a decline in clothing prices helped to slow the price index, which measures costs in the city of Sao Paulo. The effect of recent rises in bus fares was fading as well, he said.
Clothing prices fell 2.10 percent in the period.
Rizzieri said he expected the Fipe index to fall to 0.5 to 0.7 percent by the end of August.
He also gave the following breakdown of the Fipe weighted index for the period.
The Fipe index is calculated by the University of Sao Paulo, which releases inflation figures at weekly intervals.
Satellite broadcaster British Sky Broadcasting could link up with British Telecom to provide new services when it launches digital television next year.
"That is a possibility," said BSkyB chief executive Sam Chisholm when asked about the prospect of linking with BT to supply interactive services.
BSkyB is planning to launch digital satellite television late next year and is reportedly talking to a number of partners about promoting and subsidising the launch.
"There is no question that there is a very big demand for it (digital satellite) if you can get it right," he added.
He said that BSkyB was ideally placed for a digital launch thanks to the success of its analogue services. BSkyB now has some 5.5 million subscribers in Britain and Ireland.
Chisholm said he could not comment on negotiations with the BBC on setting up new channels based on BBC programming.
"Most of it is widely reported in the press...I don't want to add anything to it," he said.
Flextech, 51 percent owned by Tele-Communications Inc of Denver, is seen as the favourite to clinch an agreement as it could provide the BBC with access to the north American market.
English cricketer Ed Giddins was suspended from the first-class game until the start of the 1998 season on Tuesday after being found guilty of taking cocaine.
The Test and County Cricket Board (TCCB) said it had barred the 25-year-old Sussex fast bowler from playing any match under its jurisdiction until April 1, 1998.
The TCCB found him guilty on three charges: that he had a prohibitive substance in a urine sample, that he knowlingly used a prohibitive substance and that he behaved in a manner which may bring the game into disrepute.
"In considering the appropriate penalty to be imposed, the committee took account of the fact that the prohibitive substance was identified as cocaine, regarding in law as a class A drug," the board said in a statement.
The ban takes immediate effect. Giddens has 14 days to appeal.
Giddens, who toured Pakistan with England A last winter, tested positive for an illegal substance after a county match against Kent in May. A second test also proved positive. His case went to a hearing which was adjourned on Monday after more than four hours.
On Tuesday Giddens was whisked away from the hearing after just 20 minutes, telling reporters: "I've absolutely nothing to say. I wish I could."
The only known previous case of an English cricketer testing positive was Yorkshire bowler Richard Stemp. The TCCB accepted Stemp's explanation that his drink had been spiked.
But the board committee rejected Giddins's claim that he had taken the drug inadvertently, although it accepted there was no evidence Giddins had taken the drug more than once.
It said the use of an illegal drug "was a grave breach of regulations which was not only likely to bring the game into disrepute but which had the potential to put at risk the safety of fellow players and officials."
"Cricket, its players and administrators, would not tolerate in its ranks those who indulge in the use of a prohibited drug. The committee was sure the public would demand nothing less," the statement said.
An extra production levy for "B" quota sugar is due to be discussed by the European Union's sugar management committee on Wednesday, EU sources said on Tuesday.
The European Commission is checking export refund figures and receipts to see if there is a budget shortfall for financing the cost of disposing of surplus EU sugar.
The weekly EU white sugar export tender will also be held on Wednesday.
Cuba's expulsion of a U.S. diplomat who had close links with Cuban anti-government dissidents seemed intended as a warning against foreign interference in its internal politics, Havana-based diplomats said on Monday.
The diplomats, who asked not to be named, said they were not really surprised by the news on Monday of Havana's decision to revoke the visa last week of Robin Meyer, an officer at the U.S. Interests Section in Cuba who closely monitored the activities of Cuban dissidents and human rights activists.
"Many people thought that she had it coming," one diplomat said. Meyer, who was in the third year of her posting, was known to have been particularly active in her contacts and support for opponents of Cuba's one-party communist system.
She had been singled out in the past by Cuban officials who publicly criticised what they said was help given by the U.S. Interests Section in Havana for Cuban dissident groups. Her activities meant that she had been closely watched by members of the Cuban state security services, diplomats said.
The U.S. State Department said Cuba accused Meyer of "activities incompatible with her diplomatic status." This was usually a diplomatic term for spying, but Havana-based diplomats believed that in this case it was almost certainly her support for the dissidents that led to her being expelled.
The U.S. government protested Meyer's expulsion and announced it was expelling a Cuban diplomat, Jose Luis Ponce, whose responsibilities at the Cuban Interests Section in Washington included handling press affairs. Cuba and the United States do not have formal diplomatic relations.
Cuban officials had this year publicly slammed Meyer and other U.S. diplomats for transporting Cuban political dissidents in embassy cars, hosting meetings at their homes for members of internal opposition groups and providing them with both moral and material support.
"What they seem to be saying is that they will not tolerate anything that smacks of interference," one foreign diplomat said, referring to the expulsion.
Diplomats noted the Cuban move coincided with the naming by President Bill Clinton on Friday of a special envoy, Stuart Eizenstat, whose task was to persuade U.S. allies to join a U.S.-led campaign to promote democracy on the communist-ruled island.
It also came soon after the arrival in Havana of a new head of the U.S. mission in Havana, Michael Kozak, replacing Joseph Sullivan, who finished his tour of duty this summer.
Other Western embassies, such as those representing Canada and the nations of the European Union, also closely monitored the activities of Cuban dissidents, but usually stopped short of providing material aid and assistance, as U.S. diplomats have been accused of doing.
Last Wednesday, Cuba's main state media carried tough editorials saying the Cuban government would do everything necessary to counter U.S. attempts to subvert its political system through support for dissident groups.
The expulsions came at a time when Cuba-U.S. ties were already strained by Cuba's shooting down on Feb. 24 of two small U.S. planes and a U.S. law introduced in March aimed at curbing foreign investment on the island. On Sunday, Havana also called on the United States to honour existing bilateral immigration accords by returning Cubans who had recently fled the island.
Saab Military Aircraft, part of the Investor-owned Saab group, said on Tuesday that Chile had requested information on its JAS 39 Gripen fighter as a prelude to a possible tender procedure.
"The request for information is the first stage in a selection procedure among possible aircraft," Saab Military Aircraft spokeswoman Pia Fores told Reuters.
Other possible choices are likely to be the American F-16 and F-18, the French Mirage 2000/5 and possibly a Russian aircraft, the Mig-29, Fores said.
The next step in the process would be a Chilean request for tenders from the manufacturer it selects, she added.
"Some time in 1998, Chile will decide whether the country is to buy new fighters, and if so, which. It could be a matter of around 15 planes in the first round," Fores said.
She added it was too early to comment on how the financing of the purchase would be structured.
Medmarco Inc said on Tuesday that its board has named Charles McLaughlin, a board member since 1995, as chairman.
McLaughlin succeeds James McNees, who has retired for health reasons.
Filling the board vacancy created by McNees's retirement, Medmarco announced the appointment of William Carraway, founder and chief executive officer of Green Oasis Environmental Inc, to the board.
Ukraine will begin crude oil exports to Greece in early 1997 as production from a promising development in the Crimea increases nearly tenfold from current levels, one of the developers said.
Ronald Cormick, president of Canadian independent oil and gas company Epic Energy Inc, said production from the company's Aktash field should rise from the current 800 barrels per day to 7,000 bpd in the first quarter 1997.
He said the company had secured about 4 million in financing needed to undertake the drilling programme. Epic and its joint venture partner KyrmTexasNafta Ltd would drill 40-60 wells from now until early January once financing is in place.
"If we have no weather problems, we'll get it done in January. If not, we'll be there by March," Cormick said.
Cormick said the Aktash partners have already been in contact with Greek refiners interested in buying the oil not sold to the local Lviv refinery. He said the oil would be sold to the Greeks through a long-term contract rather than on a spot basis.
"I want to establish the export process as it gives you a greater control of your destiny. The gas will all be used internally but about 80 percent of the liquids will be exported," Cormick said.
Aktash oil has an API gravity of between 23 and 25 degrees with no paraffinic or sulphur content, Cormick said.
Fleet Financial Group and National Westminster Bank PLC said Tuesday they signed an agreement that will allow both companies to provide banking services to corporate customers in Britain and the United States.
Under the agreement, NatWest will set up a representative office in Boston to provide Sterling and foreign currency account and cash management services to American companies that either have a physical presence in Britain or trade there.
Desks also will be created in Boston, New York and London, where each bank's customers can receive quick help in opening accounts and cash management. The offices will be staffed by employees who will bring specific expertise in their country's banking system to each marketplace, the companies said.
Fleet will provide U.S. dollar accounts and cash management services to the U.S. subsidiaries and offices of British-based companies. Fleet currently markets U.S. cash management services directly to British companies from its office in London.
NatWest supplies commercial banking services to about one-third of the companies in Britain and is the second largest retail bank in the country with over 2,000 branches.
Belgian police have turned to other countries in their search for two teenage girls who were abducted a year ago by a convicted child sex offender at the heart of a widening sex scandal, Belgian media said on Tuesday.
The media spotlight focused particularly on the Czech Republic, but there were also reports that Interpol in Germany, the Netherlands and France had been asked for help.
There has been widespread speculation the two may have been sold into prostitution, possibly in the Czech Republic.
Officials in the case would only say there were foreign leads.
"Unbearable," Het Laatste Nieuws newspaper said, referring to the tension being borne by the parents of An Marchal and Eefje Lambrecks, who went missing at the Belgian port of Ostend in August 1995.
BRTN radio on Tuesday quoted An's father, Paul Marchal, as saying it could still be a matter of days before the case was solved.
BRTN said a fifth suspect in the case had been detained after a series of house searches on Monday but magistrates in charge of the case in Neufchateau, southern Belgium, were not immediately available for comment.
The main suspect in the biggest child sex scandal in Belgian history is Marc Dutroux, a convicted child abuser and unemployed father of three.
Dutroux and associate Michel Lelievre were formally charged last Friday with abduction and illegal imprisonment after police rescued Laetitia Delhez, 14, and Sabine Dardenne, 12, from a cell in a house owned by Dutroux in Charleroi. Both girls had been sexually abused.
Michelle Martin, Dutroux' second wife, was charged on Monday with being an accomplice.
National euphoria at the rescue turned to dismay and anger at the weekend when Dutroux led police to the bodies of eight-year-olds Julie Lejeune and Melissa Russo, who had died of starvation early this year after being kidnapped in June 1995.
The children will be buried on Thursday.
The leader of the investigation into the case of British serial killers Fred and Rosemary West, whose house and garden in Gloucester contained the bodies of several murdered women, has offered to help Belgian investigators, BRTN radio said.
Brussels businessman Jean-Michel Nihoul arrived amid tight security at the Neufchateau court building on Tuesday. He is to be formally charged with criminal association, assistant magistrate Jean-Paul Pavanello said on Monday.
BRTN radio said the fifth arrested person is the Dutch boyfriend of Nihoul's former wife. His house in Brussels and caravan in Dinant, southern Belgium, have been searched.
Belgian newspaper Het Nieuwsblad said Dutroux abducted girls for a network with international links.
BRTN said a total of 15 house searches had been carried out on Monday.
Public anger spread further at the fact that Dutroux had been released for good behaviour 10 years early in 1992 from a 13-year sentence for rape and child abuse.
Former Belgian Justice Minister Melchior Wathelet, blamed by Julie and Melissa's parents for having approved Dutroux's release, said he too was shocked.
But he told BRTN radio he had released him in good faith on the basis of a full judicial report.
At least 15 children have disappeared in Belgium in the past six years. Seven have now been found dead, six are still missing and only two -- Delhez and Dardenne -- have been rescued.
Hong Kong stocks were modestly higher in Tuesday morning trade, with gains in the utility and property sectors aiding the general tone of the market, analysts said.
The Hang Seng index rose 24.09 points to 11,237.57. Turnover was HK$817 million after the first hour of trade. The Hang Seng properties sub-index added 17.26 points to 21,062.19 and the utilities sub-index rose 76.98 points to 9,547.78.
"There is still going to be buying in property counters ahead of their reuslts," said Kent Rossiter, institutional sales manager at Nikko Securities. "There is a lot of focus on Hutchison and Cheung Kong which are the most imminent."
Shares in Hutchison Whampoa rose HK$0.50 to HK$47.90 and Cheung Kong (Holdings) was steady at HK$56.25. Both companies are due to release their interim results on Thursday.
In the utilities sector, China Light rose HK$0.30 to HK$32.80 and Hong Kong Telecom was up HK$0.10 at HK$12.90. "The utilities had been left well behind by the market," said one trader.
However, analysts said gains in the market were likely to be capped ahead of the U.S. Federal Reserve's policy meeting later on Tuesday. "As the market heads towards the 11,300 level we are still going to meet some resistance," said Rossiter.
"The market is likely to be quiet waiting for the FOMC meeting. If there is no change in interest rates, the market should be able to move higher," the trader said.
H-shares succumbed to profit-taking after three consecutive winning sessions. The index of Hong Kong-listed mainland China companies fell 12.18 points to 823.34.
Shares in Yaohan International Holdings rose HK$0.10 to HK$0.87 after the company said it plans to privatise its loss making unit Yaohan Hongkong Corp Ltd. Shares in Yaohan Hongkong fell HK$0.02 to HK$0.35.
Cheung Kong Infrastructure fell HK$0.05 to HK$12.55. The company reported net profit of HK$347.2 million for the first half of 1996.
NARODNA OBRODA - The government holds its regular session today. The preliminary agenda includes the long-term programme of Slovakia's foreign trade policy and transformation of four state-owned energy utilities to 100-percent state joint-stock companies.
- The British-Slovak telecom equipment producer, Telspec Slovakia, plans to expand its commercial activities to markets in Ukraine, Russia and countries of the former Yugoslavia. The joint-venture posted turnover 205 million crowns in the first seven months of this year.
HOSPODARSKE NOVINY - Slovakia's production of beef significantly exceeds country's consumption and the agriculture ministry said it would seek the ways for exports of the commodity.
- Chinesse ambassador to Slovakia Tao Miaofa and Jan Gabriel, President of Slovakia's largest commercial bank VUB, on Monday discussed ways of possible cooperation in the field of banking.
- Polnobanka, the fourth largest Slovak commerial bank, said it would manage funds of the state fund for support of agriculture and food industry, effective this September.
SME - The opposition Democratic Union (DU) has accused the NPF of violating the law according to which the fund is obliged to inform parliament about the privatisation process.
- Slovakia and its Visegrad Four partners intend to ask NATO to "review" Slovakia's position in the process of integration into the alliance.
Chadmoore Wireless Group Inc.
-- Goldman Sachs initiated coverage of Suburban Propane Partners Lp as a market outperform, according to a Goldman source.
-- shares rose 1/4 to 20-1/4.
Applied Materials Inc said it and Belgium's IMEC had entered into a three-year collaboration agreement to develop advanced metallization process technology.
In a statement late on Monday, Applied Materials said the technology was critical to 0.25 micron semiconductor manufacturing.
Applied Materials will install an Endura HP PVD system at IMEC and effective Sept 1996, Applied Materials will become a member of IMEC's Industrial Affiliates Program on Advanced Metallization.
IMEC is an independent research and development organization that develops and licenses microelectronic technology worldwide.
"The Endura HP PVD system includes an advanced sputter etch module, Chorent titanium/titanium-nitride and Aluminum Physical Vapor Deposition (Al-PVD) chambers," the statement said.
The research is being conducted at IMEC's facilities in Leuven, Belgium, by IMEC researchers in cooperation with Applied Materials' PVD Division in Santa Clara.
Outdoor Systems Inc's 8.6 million share public offering was priced at $34.50 per common shares, said the lead underwriter of the offering Alex. Brown & Sons Inc.
The shares were increased to 8.6 million from 7.7 million.
Outdoor Systems is an outdoor advertising company, based in Phoenix, Az.
-- New York Newsdesk 212-859-1610.
Syria on Tuesday accused Israel of beating the drums of war in the Middle East and warned Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu that he would be defeated in any military confrontation with Arabs.
"Israel is no longer interested in making peace. It has retracted from all its peace process commitments and guarantees and returned to its traditional course of escalating tension, beating the drums of war and waving flagrant threats against Syria and Lebanon," the ruling party newspaper al-Baath said.
"There is no doubt that Israel, after killing the peace process, will try to set off new wars in the region and exert pressures on Arabs who have rejected its plans," it said.
Tension between Syria and Israel escalated after the Likud leader said he would not return the Golan Heights, captured from Syria in the Middle East war in 1967, adding further deadlock to the peace talks which have been staggering for over four years.
"Israel should count to 100 and even 1,000 before it gets involved in such a foolish action because the world of today is not the one of yesterday and what was allowed then cannot go with the current international order," al-Baath said.
"Defeat is the most likely possibility in any aggression Netanyahu's government might be thinking of," it added.
Finnish sporting goods group Amer-yhtyma Oy gained on brisk overseas demand on Tuesday, brokers said, but could not give a specific reason for the rise.
At 1215/0915 GMT, Amer traded at 104.50 markka, up 4.30 markka or more than four percent. Turnover was a lively 8.8 million markka.
Amer rose sharply early in August partly on speculation it might sell its Wilson sporting goods unit. On August 5, the company announced it would streamline Wilson's operations in order to respond to the market conditions.
Chase Manhattan Bank said Tuesday it has appointed Antony Leung as managing director and regional manager for Greater China and the Philippines.
Leung had been with Citibank for the past 23 years and was most recently division executive, private banking, Asia.
Leung holds a number of public service positions in Hong Kong, including chairman of the University Grants Committee, board member of the Airport Authority and member of the Exchange Fund Advisory Committee.
Leung also is a member of the Preparatory Committee for the Hong Kong Special Administrative Region and a Hong Kong Affairs Adviser to the government of China.
Chase also announced that its former managing director for Greater China, Richard Mounce, has been named Asia business manager, a new position.
Both appointments are effective in mid-October. The two men will be based in Hong Kong and will report to Robert Fallon, managing director and Asia Pacific division head.
CellularVision USA said on Tuesday it had elected Charles Garber chief financial officer.
Garber was also elected vice president of finance for CellularVision of New York, the company's New York metropolitan subsidiary.
Garber's background includes financial, strategic and operating experience in the television and cable T.V. industries.
Turkish security forces have killed 16 Kurdistan Workers Party (PKK) rebels in separate clashes on the rugged border with northern Iraq, security officials said on Tuesday.
The emergency rule governor's office in the southeastern city of Diyarbakir said the guerrillas were killed on Monday and Tuesday in the border province of Hakkari. One member of the security forces also died, the office said in a statement.
Suspected PKK fighters killed three civilians in an attack in central Turkey on Monday night, police said on Tuesday.
Assailants opened fire on two cars on a lonely road in the central province of Sivas, killing two women and a two-year-old child, a police official said.
"According to the information we have it was most probably the PKK," he told Reuters by telephone from Sivas.
The guerrillas killed a policeman and another person in an attack on an intercity bus in the same area last week. Sivas has only a small Kurdish population and is not one of the ten southeastern provinces under emergency rule where the rebels are most active.
But rebel leader Abdullah Ocalan warned last week that his forces would stage attacks on the periphery of the mainly Kurdish southeast to stretch security forces.
More than 20,000 people have been killed in 12 years of conflict between soldiers and rebels fighting for autonomy or independence.
The guerrillas damaged two government buildings in the town of Baskale, near the Iranian border, in a rocket attack on Monday night, Anatolian news agency said. No-one was injured.
Jakarta share prices closed marginally higher on Tuesday due to active buying in secondaries and selected heavyweights, brokers said.
The Jakarta composite index rose 2.53 points, or 0.47 percent, to 539.61 points. Losers led gainers by 49 to 44, with 42 counters unchanged.
But they said broad market sentiment remained uncertain with many players waiting for the result of the U.S. Federal Reserve meeting on Tuesday.
Brokers also said many foreigners remain sidelined, taking a wait-and-see position before upcoming court hearing of ousted leader Megawati Sukarnoputri.
The court hearing was postponed to August 22. "I don't think there will be more disturbances but still, the market prefers to wait for the results," one foreign broker said.
Brokers said the rise was due to continued rumours of possible joint venture with foreign partner. "It boosted market sentiment towards Duta Anggada," said one foreign broker.
A company official confirmed the news and said negotiations with Singapore-based property firm were in the final stages and the deal was likely to be finalised this week. He declined to give further details.
"Active property stocks were also due to market talk saying some big banks will gradually lower their interest rates," one local broker said.
Shipping firm Berlian Laju Tanker was also actively traded during the day after a news report saying the firm would import some vessels. It rose 175 rupiah to 2,200 on a volume of 8.4 million shares.
Heavyweights Telkom rose 50 rupiah to 3,275 on a volume of 2.2 million shares.
An Indonesian Catholic priest was charged on Tuesday with publicly showing hatred against President Suharto following last month's riots in Jakarta, his lawyer said.
Authorities have taken more than 200 people into custody since the July 27 violence in which at least four people were killed and scores of buildings and vehicles set on fire.
Lawyer Luhut Pangaribuan from the Legal Aid Institute told reporters Father Ignatius Sandyawan was questioned and charged but not arrested.
"Father Ignatius Sandyawan was questioned and he will appear before the police again tomorrow. Police have said he would not be arrested," Pangaribuan said.
The lawyer said Sandyawan was not arrested because church officials had guaranteed his presence at his trial.
He said Sandyawan was questioned for more than three hours and also faced three further charges -- showing enmity against the authorities, publicly insulting the authorities in writing and harbouring criminals.
Sandyawan was not available for comment.
Officials have accused Sandyawan of sheltering three members of the leftist People's Democratic Party (PRD), including its leader Budiman Sudjatmiko.
The PRD has been blamed for instigating the riots.
Showing hatred against the president carries a maximum penalty of six years' imprisonment.
Sandyawan is the secretary of a team of volunteers set up to assist victims of the riots, the worst unrest in the city for more than two decades.
The riots erupted after police stormed the headquarters of the Indonesian Democratic Party and evicted supporters of ousted party leader Megawati Sukarnoputri, the daughter of the late founding president Sukarno.
Pangaribuan, who was with the priest during the questioning, said Sudjatmiko, using a false name, had called on Sandyawan after the riots and sought shelter.
"Sandyawan told the that police he, as a religious man, had a moral obligation to help people who felt scared," he said.
The priest later put up the PRD members at the home of his brother, Benny Sumardi. Sumardi, also accused of harbouring criminals, was arrested along with the activists last week.
A spokesman for the Legal Aid Institute, Munir, told Reuters on Tuesday authorities had charged 13 activists, including PRD members, with subversion in connection with the riots.
Indonesia's subversion laws allow for detention for up to one year without trial and are punishable by death.
French shares extended earlier gains to close over one percent higher, outshining most other European centres, as fresh talk of rate cuts allowed the market to claw back some of its recent chronic underperformance.
The blue-chip CAC-40 index closed up 33.05 points or 1.66 percent at 2,019.26, just off the day's high of 2,020.57.
The index closed at its highest level since August 2, before recent currency attacks on the franc.
The broader SBF-120 index ended 18.39 points or 1.31 percent higher at 1,423.34 points.
Dealers said the market pounced on a slowdown in German M3 growth in July as a further sign the Bundesbank might ease its key 3.3 percent repo rate, leaving room for a further cut in French rates needed to boost the economy. The rally picked up when the CAC-40 bowled out one resistance level after another.
But investors were awaiting German IFO data before deciding on the prospects of a German rate cut on Thursday and chances of a quick easing in French rates were even less certain.
Most economist do not expect a French rate cut this week.
Brokers said the bourse had limited room to keep the rally going -- even with a new rate cut -- with foreign investors particularly wary of threatened union unrest in the autumn.
Short-term gains should be capped around 2,050, they said.
* GAN closed up 3.30 francs at 129 on a newspaper report that Caisses d'Epargne was poised to make a firm bid for CIC.
* Eridania, up 35 at 750, nearly five percent, on talk of improved Spanish olive oil harvest and lower corn prices -- both reducing key costs. Worries linger over H1 results.
* LVMH rose 36 francs to 1,140, up strongly on mainly technical grounds after piercing the key 1,100 level on Monday.
* Pathe up again after BSkyB reports 66-percent profit rise. Share had risen four percent on Monday.
* Computer systems house Axime falls 109 francs to 611, after a blistering rise above 760 francs in the past year. A fund manager said its 1995/96 results disappointed and a broker downgraded profit forecasts for next year and the year after.
Panama's Congress voted to abolish a 15 percent tax on foreign sales in the free-trade zone introduced last July while retaining the tax on local sales, a Trade Ministry spokesman said Tuesday.
The single-house, 72-member Congress voted unanimously Monday to rescind the tax which merchants claimed hurt their businesses, the spokesman said. The tax generated some $30 million in revenues, he added.
The free-trade zone's 1,500 merchants staged four work stoppages over the past year protesting the tax which required they make advance payments based on estimated earnings.
The repeal is expected to be effective Jan. 1 after it is signed by President Ernesto Perez Balladares.
These indicative rates are based on contributions from ABN Amro, ANZ Grindlays, Andhra Bank, Bank of America, Canara Bank,Citibank, Credit Lyonnais, Deutsche Bank, Dresdner Bank, Global Trust Bank, HDFC Bank, Hongkong Bank, L.C.Raheja, Mashreq Bank, Nucleus Securities, Societe Generale, Standard Chartered Bank, State Bank of India - Calcutta, Syndicate Bank.
The Shanghai government has promised to offer preferential treatment to 100 locally listed firms to speed up the development of the city's stock market, the Shanghai Securities News said on Tuesday.
The city government said it would help to reduce cost of fund-raising for the firms, recommend good projects for them to invest in and offer favourable conditions in the course of mergers and restructuring, the newspaper said.
Major local banks will give more credit to blue-chip listed companies and the city's securities authorities will help the listed firms raise more money from the stock market, it said.
The city government will publish specific measures within a few days, it said.
It quoted the city's vice general secretary, Han Zheng, as saying that improving the performance of listed firms was a key factor to further develop the stock market and the local economy. It did not elaborate.
Singapore department stores group Robinson & Co Ltd said on Tuesday its trading conditions remained difficult, with lower consumer spending, higher overheads and intense competition among retailers.
The company said in a statement accompanying its 1995/96 annual results that these conditions would "impact the group's ability to maintain the level of operating profit achieved in 1995/96".
Robinson earlier posted a 10.8 percent decline in net profit for the year to June 30 of Singapore $25.34 million.
Marvel Entertainment Group Inc said Tuesday it had named David Schreff as president and chief operating officer.
A spokesman for Marvel said Schreff, who is to begin work with the group in September, is the first to fill the positions.
The percentage of global air cargo traffic handled at the Paris airports in the first seven months of 1996 arriving and departing on full-freighter flights was higher than in the same period last year, Aeroports de Paris(ADP) figures show.
Full-freighters had a 39.4 percent share of January-July 1996 global air cargo throughput (imports and exports) totalling 633,224 tonnes, handled at Charles de Gaulle and Orly airports compared to 38.8 percent in the first seven months of 1995.
60.6 percent of the ADP's global air cargo traffic in the period in question was carried on passenger and combi flights compared to 61.2 percent in January-July 1995.
Power-hungry Turkey, facing energy shortages later this year, has pinned its hopes on natural gas from Iran and development of its first nuclear power plant to meet its long-term energy needs.
Recai Kutan, energy minister of the Islamist coalition government that struck a multi-billion dollar gas supply deal with Iran last week, said power generation from nuclear energy was inevitable despite environmentalist concerns.
"Nuclear power is a must for Turkey," he told a meeting of businessmen in the western city of Izmit. "We cannot build big hydroenergy power plants every year. We must make use of our nuclear energy potential," he said in remarks carried by Anatolian news agency.
Prime Minister Necmettin Erbakan concluded the $23-billion landmark deal with Iran to get gas via a pipeline to be built from the Iranian city of Tabriz to Ankara, beginning in 1999. Turkey is to buy a total of 190 billion cubic metres by 2022.
The deal came shortly after the United States, Turkey's close NATO ally, issued a law to punish companies investing $40 million or more a year in energy projects in Iran or Libya.
The United States later said it was yet to see the details of the agreement to determine whether Turkey was liable under the new legislation -- designed, says Washington, to punish states that back "terrorism".
Ankara said a last-minute change was made in the agreement not to breach the U.S. ban by deleting reference to Turkey's involvement in the building of the pipeline's section through Iranian territory.
Turkey, which uses gas chiefly for domestic use, presently consumes nearly nine billion cubic metres of gas annually with imports mainly from Russia. The Iranian deal will supply an initial three billion cubic metres from 1999.
Turkey is expected to produce 93.1 billion kiloWatt-hours (kWh) of power this year, up eight percent from last year, against a projected consumption of 97.5 billion kWh.
Officials said the short-term supply shortfall would be met by imports from neighbouring countries.
Ugur Dogan, energy ministry undesecretary, said Turkey would soon begin buying electricity from Iran through an existing grid.
He said Turkey was also negotiating with Georgia and Bulgaria for power imports from late 1996 or early 1997.
Kutan said Turkey was seeking to revive a 30-year-old plan to build a nuclear power plant on the Mediterranean coast. Previous governments shelved the plan after protests from residents, local politicians and environmental activists.
Officials said the government would later invite an international tender to build the plant, originally designed to have a generation capacity of 1,000-1,400 megaWatts and produce up to 10 billion kWh annually -- nearly 10 percent of Turkey's needs. Its total cost is estimated at $3 billion to $5 billion.
Turkey had been self-sufficient in electricity for years but lack of investments due to legal wrangling and bureaucratic snags led to shortages.
The obstacles were aggravated by a constitutional court ruling in early 1990s that demanded special oversight of projects involving foreign concerns.
That decision has delayed at least seven power projects with a generation capacity of about 1,000 MW and worth around $2.6 billion, according to official figures.
Undersecretary Dogan said the government planned to re-open four coal-fired power plants in western Turkey shut down in 1994 after environmentalists won court cases.
"We are having desulphurisation units built at chimneys to minimise air pollution at those four plants. We will open them as soon as possible," he said.
Sentiment on the Slovak equities market, despite its recent mini-bull run, remains bearish in the medium-term as the bourse continues to be plagued by problems of liquidity and transparency.
The smallest of eastern Europe's four leading bourses with capitalisation of $2.6 billion -- Prague, the region's largest, has market capitalisation of some $16 billion -- the Bratislava bourse has been setting year highs almost daily.
On Monday, the SAX rose 2.45 points to a new 52-week high of 225.69, putting the bourse some three percent higher in the past four sessions.
But analysts say the market still lacks a broad range of illiquid issues, with trading concentrated on only a few "blue chips".
"This market suffers from a lack of new issues, and even if there are some, these are too small to enable higher trading activity," Peter Krutil, analyst at Creditanstalt told Reuters.
Equity trading in every market throughout the former East Bloc has taken time to iron out the kinks, and analysts like Krutil say Slovakia is showing the "typical signs" of a immaturity.
As an example, they point to the bourse's 12-share SAX index, which brokers complain does not adequately reflect market trends since it is held hostage by four issues -- oil refinery Slovnaft, gas storage Nafta, bank VUB and steel producer VSZ -- accounting for 80 percent of its value.
Dusan Sykora of ING Barings said transparency problems in the market as a whole have impeded the bourse's progress.
He said a recent battle for a strategic control over the country's largest investment fund, VUB Kupon, were only the latest example of such "market rigging" by participants.
In the battle, large blocks of VUB Kupon shares changed hands at prices significantly different from those trading on the bourse floor.
"If the share price on the BSE floor was 825 crowns, but somebody matched the block of some 30,000 shares at 723, dragging the average price down to 753, I can call it nothing else but rigging the market," Sykora said.
He added that such unrealistic average prices, considered one of the important indicators of what a share's true current market price is, has been often spoiling trading for investors and discouraging potential new buyers.
After closing down the Bratislava Option Bourse (BOB) last November, Slovak finance ministry authorities allowed BSE to launch trading with derivatives, in the hopes of breathing new life into the market's development.
Analysts are divided on the impact the move will have when trading begins sometime around the first half of 1997, but most agree the bourse has a lot of growing up to do before it can expect to handle the increased pressures derivatives trading brings.
"The question is wheter there will appear enough clients interested in this kind of trading," said Vladimir Kuklis, analyst at the bank CSOB.
"However, I think traders will need it (derivatives), at least for hedging their positions, no matter if they didn't do it so far," he said.
But, added ING's Sykora: "I can't imagine the routine trading in derivatives in the near future, as it requires a lot of serious figures based on the average (price)," Sykora said.
"The SAX has been constructed in such unhappy way, that it almost doesn't have a chance to reflect the market and, for example, index-futures trading could easily turn into a farce."
German stocks are likely to be steady on Wednesday, dealers said, amid limited expectation of a move on U.S. interest rates to inject life into the market.
The 30-share IBIS DAX index was up 6.72 points at 2,562.97 points at 1421 GMT, just above its floor session close at 2,560.26 points.
Traders said there was little movement in the afternoon as the market waited for the outcome of the FOMC meeting in the U.S. later on Tuesday.
"The 30-share DAX is likely to meet resistance at 2,570 and the September future most likely will not break 2,574/75 points," a London trader said.
U.S. interest rates will be closely watched for a signal on the likely direction on German interest rates.
The Bundesbank meets this Thursday amid widespread expectations that it will cut its securities repurchase rate, or repo.
RWE was up 91 pfennigs at 55.37 marks in afternoon trade.
Half-year results due from utility company Viag AG would determine their share price development Wednesday, dealers said.
Viag stock was up 6.90 marks at 569.50 on Tuesday afternoon as investors bet on a strong earnings report.
Construction group Philipp Holzmann AG was also likely to be active after its release later on Tuesday of half-year results.
The stock dropped two marks to 374 marks in floor trade.
Poland's government wants to set a duty-free import quota for petrol and diesel oil when it frees fuel prices, Prime Minister Wlodzimierz Cimoszewicz said on Tuesday.
"We would like to decide about a possible duty-free fuels import quota together with the decision about freeing fuels prices and we'd like this to happen this year," Cimoszewicz told reporters before the cabinet meeting.
On Monday government spokeswoman Aleksandra Jakubowska said the government might debate the foreign trade ministry's proposal of a 300,000 tonne import quota as early as Tuesday.
Cimoszewicz did not rule out discussing the quota on Tuesday but said the timing of its introduction and the freeing of prices should depend on conditions on world oil and fuels markets.
"The timing of those decisions or their implementation should depend on the situation on world markets and world prices," Cimoszewicz said.
So far the government has controlled prices of domestically produced fuels by maintaining price caps and adjusting the amount of excise tax levied on petrol and diesel.
Fuel distributors, importers and manufacturers have complained that the caps, combined with high world oil prices, have been eroding profit margins, making domestic production unprofitable and limiting supply.
The U.S. trade gap narrowed dramatically in June as imports of merchandise and petroleum plunged from May levels, the Commerce Department said Tuesday.
The monthly deficit dropped 23.1 percent to $8.11 billion from a revised $10.55 billion in May -- much lower than the $9.4 billion shortfall that Wall Street economists had forecast for June.
June exports eased a slight 0.3 percent to $69.71 billion while imports dropped 3.3 percent to $77.82 billion.
Concessionaire Bangkok Expressway Co Ltd (BECL) said on Tuesday it will set up a wholly-owned unit with three billion baht ($120 million) registered capital to build and operate a new expressway north of the Thai capital.
The unit, Northern Expressway Co Ltd, will have initial capital of 750 million baht ($30 million), BECL said in a filing to the Stock Exchange of Thailand.
BECL won a government concession earlier this year to build and operate the 34-km (21-mile) expressway from Bangkok's northern fringes to the town of Bang Pa-in, the company said.
Total investment in the project will be up to 16 billion baht ($640 million), it said.
Bangkok Expressway will finance the project with its own working capital, by issuing debentures and warrants, and by borrowing from financial institutions, it said.
World champion Colin McRae escaped a ban on Tuesday but was fined $250,000, most of it suspended, after breaking new rules in last month's Argentine Rally and colliding with spectators. Five fans were slightly injured.
Motor sport's world governing body FIA decided against suspending the Scot and he will only have to pay $75,000 unless he repeats the offence.
"This was a situation where normally there would be a one or two race suspension," FIA president Max Mosley said after a FIA world council meeting attended by McRae.
"But he was the first person to fall foul of the new regulations and the world council has taken a lenient view and hopes it won't happen again in the future.
"We listened to everything (McRae had to say) and he had a lot of extenuating circumstances, there were lots of spectators in the service area and he had lost a lot of time with repairs and was in a great hurry."
Mosley said McRae had apologised and admitted to driving too fast in the service area. "We thought it excessive to take him out of one or more events," Mosley said.
He said, however, that the service area "is a place for spectators to hang around", where they are allowed to wander among the cars and competitors and FIA would continue to seek strict adherence to its safety regulations.
McRae, looking relieved at the outcome of the meeting, said: "I feel very well, very positive that the penalty was a fine and there was no suspension.
"Security is a big, big issue and we will have to work together to ensure safety is increased as much as possible.
"Now I can go to the 1,000 Lakes and get on with racing," the 28-year-old added.
The sixth round of the world championship in Finland takes place this weekend.
David Richards, director of McRae's Subaru team, said: "While this incident has placed considerable pressure on him, I for one share his confidence that only good can come from raising the awareness of this issue."
The Australian Workers' Union (AWU) said on Tuesday it was unlikely to accept arbitration as an option to resolve a strike over work practices at Shell Australia Ltd's refinery in Geelong, Victoria.
The Australian Industrial Relations Commission (AIRC) on Tuesday requested the parties consent to arbitration over the strike, which has reduced production at the 115,000 barrels-per-day refinery and stopped distribution at its ocean tanker and Lara LPG distribution facilities.
Shell said in a statement it would consider the request.
The parties must to respond to the AIRC by 5.00 p.m. (0700 GMT) on Wednesday.
"We will give it due consideration and report back to the Commission tomorrow (Wednesday)," Shell industrial relations manager Warren Stooke said.
A U.S. agricultural attache pegged Argentina 1996/97 wheat production at 14.0 million tonnes, up from 13.0 million tonnes forecast last month.
The new estimate is in line with U.S. Agriculture Department's forecast for Argentina wheat production released in the August World Agricultural Supply and Demand Report.
The agricultural attache also revised up his 1995/96 Argentina wheat crop estimate to 9.0 million tonnes from 8.8 million tonnes.
The attache said the revised forecast is based on a harvested area of 4.8 million hectares, quantities already sold and those in farmer-owned and country elevator storage.
USDA pegged 1995/96 Argentina wheat production at 8.6 million tonnes in the August supply and demand report.
The attache also said there is concern that following harvest in December and January, the market will be flooded with wheat which would put considerable pressure on local prices, as storage capacity is generally regarded as insufficient to handle such a large harvest.
"Many traders believe that by next January or February, new crop Argentine wheat will be the cheapest available worldwide and that China and Egypt, among others, will be ready buyers," the attache wrote in the report.
Gulf War hero Colin Powell lent his prestige and popularity to the Republican presidential ticket on Tuesday, making a surprise appearance alongside Bob Dole and Jack Kemp as they campaigned for a strong national defence among U.S. war veterans.
The Veterans of Foreign Wars convention in Kentucky was a natural setting for Powell, a retired general who helped lead U.S. troops to victory in Operation Desert Storm in the Gulf, and Bob Dole, who nearly died in the Second World War.
"If America is prepared to fight many wars and greater wars, and any wars to come, then maybe we will fight fewer wars and lesser wars and perhaps no wars at all," Dole said, accusing the Clinton administration of inadequate spending on modernising U.S. forces while relying too much on U.N.-related missions.
"I will never commit the armed forces, not one single soldier, without the prospect of victory," said Dole, who also faulted Clinton's policy on "terrorist" states like Iran, Cuba and North Korea. He later paid a brief visit to the Ladies Auxiliary meeting at a nearby auditorium where they were unable to see or hear the main proceedings.
Powell, apparently trying to keep the spotlight on the Republican candidate and not on rumours that he may be Secretary of State in a Dole administration, said he and Dole "haven't had any discussion" about a cabinet post and the priority now was to "get the team elected."
With his well-received speech at the Republican convention in San Diego last week, the retired general and best-selling author helped the party project an image of tolerance and inclusion. Republicans hope Powell, a moderate on social issues, can reel in the independents Dole needs if he is to oust President Bill Clinton from the White House on Nov. 5.
Powell had to remind well-wishers who had come out to greet Dole at the Louisville airport, "I'm not running for anything." Introducing Dole at the VFW rally, he praised him as a champion of a strong defence who "proudly wears a purple heart" for his war wounds and "now offers himself for service as the leader of this great nation."
"His vision includes providing leadership to the world in a way that will reassure and comfort our friends and put our enemies on clear notice that we have the strength and the will to defend ourselves and to defend our interests," he added.
Opinion polls show that the harmonious Republican convention and the energy Kemp infused into the campaign helped Dole cut into Clinton's lead. But he is still trailing Clinton, who has the advantages of incumbency and at age 50 is 23 years younger. Clinton's ratings are likely to rise again after the Democratic convention in Chicago next week.
Dole and his running mate Kemp have made the economy the centrepiece of the campaign for the past few days, pledging to cut income taxes by 15 percent and balance the federal budget without harming veterans or the elderly. But they have given scant details of how precisely they plan to do that.
"It's simply a matter of presidential will. If you've got it, you can do it, and I've got it and I will do it,"  said Dole, who in his 35 years in Congress took part in many budget struggles.
NOTE: 1996 Q2 includes a charge of $800,000 for elimination of the company's in-store service group, relocation of distribution center and settlement of a lawsuit with a former employee.
1996 Q2 also includes charges of $700,000 for excess production and overhead costs and $700,000 from inventory writedowns.
South African President Nelson Mandela's ANC and their Inkatha rivals reaffirmed their quest for peace on Tuesday after five people were wounded in a shoot-out between their supporters.
Monday's shooting, after a row between Inkatha and African National Congress supporters at a court hearing over the killing of four policemen in an Inkatha stronghold last year, raised fears of a new flare-up of violence in KwaZulu-Natal province.
But a joint statement by the province's premier and Inkatha Freedom Party (IFP) national chairman, Frank Mdlalose, and provincial ANC chief Jacob Zuma condemned the clash and said it should not be allowed to derail the fragile peace.
"The leadership of both the ANC and IFP appreciate the achievement of peace that has taken root in this province," the statement said.
"We remain committed to peace and all efforts towards bringing about peace in our province. We encourage everyone who has gone out of his way to make (peace) happen, to continue to do so."
Political violence in the province, dominated by its nine million Zulus, subsided dramatically after peaceful local elections in June which gave Inkatha clear control of rural areas while the ANC swept the cities.
A joint peace drive between the two parties whose supporters had fought a low-level civil war for a decade before has stemmed the fighting in which more than 14,000 people had died.
But the truce, brokered just days before the vote, has been under constant fire. Local warlords from both sides still refuse to accede that the time to end the bloodshed has come, violence monitors say.
"Senior politicians talk peace in public, but on the other hand they are turning a blind eye to what their supporters are doing on the ground. People need firm police action and stricter gun control here," said one such monitor, Mary de Haas.
The IFP had said in a separate statement that unless incidents like Monday's shoot-out were prevented, the peace pact could turn out to be just a "cruel hoax".
Three adults and two children were shot and burnt to death last weekend in a suspected political attack, police said.
Kun Young defaulted on a 1.26 billion won debt payment due Monday evening, said an official at SEOULBANK, its main creditor.
It has until this afternoon to make the payment or face bankruptcy. The notes are to a variety of financial institutions, of which SEOULBANK is the largest debtholder.
The debt-ridden company defaulted on 1.9 billion won worth of promissory notes early August before being rescued by an emergency loan from SEOULBANK.
Kun Young's current liabilities amount to 550 billion won. It has been in takeover talks with Cheil Jedang.
Kun Young was not immediately available to comment.
Qantas Airways Ltd is expected to fly slightly above its prospectus net profit forecast of A$237 million for the year to June 30, 1996 but analysts said 1996/97 results could hit some turbulence over current wage talks.
Analysts said the Qantas result would be helped by lower costs, on which the airline has focussed since it became a publicly-owned company in July 1995.
"We have got an official figure of A$237 (million), but I really expect it to be around the A$240 to A$245 million mark and that would be largely driven by the cash flow being steered towards paying off debt," a Melbourne analyst said.
Another Melbourne-based aviation analyst forecast Qantas to report a net profit right on the prospectus forecast of A$237 million while one Sydney-based analyst forecast a net profit before abnormals of A$239.1 million for the year.
"They have done well on the cost reduction side and they have seen the market grow, but they have lost market share, so add all that up and I think they will come out about square," the second Melbourne-based analyst said.
Qantas, which is 25 percent owned by British Airways Plc, forecast in its 1995 prospectus that its international market share would be 41.1 percent for the June 30, 1996 year.
Qantas, known as the 'flying Kangaroo' estimated a one percentage point variation from this forecast would affect the bottom line profit by A$48 million.
Qantas has offered an eight percent pay rise over two years over two years on condition that productivity reforms are implemented, but unions want productivity gains to be rewarded by a wage rise over and above the eight percent offer.
Qantas shares took a dive to a record low of A$1.87 on July 24 as the market got the jitters that management had conceded to union pressure and award a wage rise above eight percent.
Qantas shares have now moved back to familiar territory and on Tuesday were trading at A$2.17.
Analysts expect Qantas to report a net profit before abnormals of between A$260 million to A$273 million for 1996/97, but some analysts said they would be ready to mark down these numbers if there were some very negative comments from Qantas.
"People have known what 96 will look like but 97 is going to be a different story for a whole mix of things and there should also be some impact from a combined Ansett/Air New Zealand when that starts to happen later this year," the Sydney analyst said.
The following are the main stories from Tuesday morning's Austrian newspapers.
- Vienna against lowering taxes despite Bonn's plans for overall tax reform in 1999 by easing tax burden on Germans.
- People's Party General Secretary Otmar Karas said the Freedom Party damaged Austria's reputation.
- Austria's travel agencies are suffering from dropping prices and late bookings.
- Chancellor Franz Vranitzky said in an interview that Austria would "certainly not" make a decision about joining NATO in 1997. An increasing number of People's Party officials are also urging the country to wait.
- People's Party social affairs spokesman Gottfried Feuerstein said he wanted to take in more foreigners as managers and seasonal workers at the expense of traditional guestworkers.
- Only four percent of Austrians own stocks.
- Heating equipment manufacturer Vogel & Noot Waermetechnik AG said it was planning a dividend cut for 1996 to 10 percent from 16 percent in 1995.
- Rate cut expected on Thursday. Adolf Wala, director general of the Austrian National Bank, said Germany had more room to manoeuvre in terms of interest rates than Austria.
- Despite an economic boom in eastern Europe, Austrian businesses are investing and exporting less to the region.
The 10th International Frankfurt Airfreight Days international cargo conference will take place from September 24-25, 1997, Flughafen Frankfurt Main AG (FAG) said.
The event will be held in the Sheraton Hotel at Frankfurt Airport under the slogan "Cargo meets Customers".
FAG said it welcomed suggestions from the cargo industry for conference contents which can be integrated into the conference planning.
The 1995 conference drew more than 300 participants, it added.
Organiser of the tenth International Airfreight Days is the FAG airfreight planning department.
FAG contact numbers: Tel. +49 69 690 66344, Fax. +49 69 690 53571.
James Percell, Chairman, President and Chief Executive of the company, said in a statement, "There is a vast misconception by both brokers and investors concerning recent wire information regarding Rule 144 notices to sell EVSF common stock. These notices are not from insiders, but from those shareholders that have owned restricted stock for the necessary holding period of two years or more. Some of the shareholders filing 144 notices are former directors and officers of Environmental Safeguards, but no longer are associated with EVSF in this capacity. Historically, the vast majority of shares of common stock issued by the company have been restricted and therefore it is necessary for shareholders owning restricted shares for less than three years to file a Rule 144 notice with the SEC regarding intended sales of these shares. It is very important that the investing community understand that these 144 notices are not related to insider selling."
Environmental Safeguards is a recycler and remediator of hydrocarbon and hydrocarbon derivative contaminated soil.
-- Long grain whole kernels, 12.62 cts per lb, versus 12.62 cts a week earlier.
-- Medium grain whole kernels, 12.60 cts, versus 12.60.
-- Short grain whole kernels,  12.46 cts, versus 12.46.
    -- Long grain,   Nil per cwt versus Nil a week earlier.
-- Medium grain, Nil per cwt versus Nil.
-- Short grain,  Nil per cwt versus Nil.
USDA said the prices are in effect until Aug. 27 at 1500 ET.
The Australian dollar and bonds both went into quick retreat on Tuesday amid mild disappointment that the maiden budget of Australia's conservative government was not as tough as the markets had been led to believe.
Within an hour of the budget being announced on Tuesday night the dollar had sunk to US$0.7860/0.7865 from a pre-budget US$0.7883/88, while long dated bond yields rose some eight basis points taking the November 2006 bond back up to 8.0 percent.
"It wasn't a complete disappointment, but this is the first of supposedly extremely tough budgets and it doesn't quite live up to expectations," said UBS chief economist Stephen Roberts.
The treasurer announced an underlying budget deficit of A$5.65 billion (US$4.46 billion) and a headline budget surplus of A$474 million for 1996/97 after savings of A$3.9 billion.
Median forecasts had centred on an underlying deficit of A$4.9 billion and a headline surplus of A$1.0 billion.
A total borrowing requirement of A$7.0 billion for 1996/97 was also larger than some analysts had expected.
The local bond market had rallied strongly in recent days in anticipation of a fiscal squeeze in the first conservative government budget in 14 years. It had been looking for cuts of over A$4.0 billion to maintain the momentum that had taken yields to their lowest level since March 1994.
The local dollar also lost its gloss after advancing to a three-week high of US$0.7933 at the start of the day amid repeated comments by the five-month-old government that the budget would pave the way for further cuts in interest rates.
"If we can get our budget, intact, through the Senate, if we can get that low inflation locked in, then I think we can set up the chances for an easing in monetary policy," Costello said.
The dollar had slid to US$0.7700 after last month's surprise 50 basis points cut in official interest rates to 7.0 percent as it eroded the currency's yield advantage, and there are fears that a further reduction could see it fall to US$0.7600.
"The next hurdle is going to be the passage of the budget through the Senate," said Bruce Freeland, chief economist at Commonwealth Bank of Australia. "Difficulties in passing the budget have previously led to downward pressure on the Australian dollar and higher bond yields."
However, he added that recent statements by the minor parties in the Senate would seem to reduce the probability of the budget being blocked in the upper house.
The budget also painted a rosy outlook for the economy with growth forecast to average 3.5 percent over 1996/97 and underlying inflation at 2.75 percent.
German Economics Minister Guenter Rexrodt is to talk to European Competition Commissioner Karel Van Miert on Tuesday, in a bid to cool a growing row about payments to Volkswagen AG, a Commission spokesman said.
"There will be a contact this afternoon between Mr Rexrodt and Mr Van Miert to see how to proceed with this affair and how to calm the proceedings down a little bit," spokesman Nikolaus van der Pas told a news briefing.
Saxony premier Kurt Biedenkopf, a Christian Democrat (CDU) ally of Chancellor Helmut Kohl, overrode Commission objections to the size of a proposed package for the carmaker and paid out extra funds, contending the state stood to lose 23,000 automotive jobs in Mosel and Chemnitz if it didn't pay.
Some 91 million marks are in dispute in the row that has worried Bonn by spurring anti-EU sentiment in the country, even from within the ranks of Kohl's conservatives.
Bonn accepts Saxony's arguments that the payouts are justified, but believes the state went too far by defying the order from Brussels, an economics ministry spokeswoman said.
"Mr Van Miert is concerned about the tone of the public debate," van der Pas said.
Van Miert warned at the weekend that Saxony could touch off a "subsidy war" in Europe if left unchallenged, telling Germany's Focus magagine Brussels could raise the stakes by blocking other AID to VW or excluding it from public tenders.
"You cannot simply break the law and hope the European Commission will close its eyes," van Miert said in an interview released ahead of publication on Monday. "This would be the end of the internal market and also of Europe."
NOTE: Full name of company is Global Telecommunication Solutions Inc.
Following are some of the main stories in the Dutch newspapers this morning.
One of 10 Africans taking part in a a 47-day hunger strike against French expulsion orders was taken to hospital on Tuesday as the marathon fast opened political rifts in France's ruling coalition.
Moussa Keita, a Malian man among the hunger strikers who are backed by 300 protesters occupying a Paris church, was driven away in an ambulance on Tuesday night, severely drained by his fast and complaining of pains in his stomach.
Keita, 29, was carried out of the church on a stretcher, wrapped in a metallic survival blanket. Two of the other nine hunger strikers were also in serious condition.
Earlier, Prime Minister Alain Juppe cut short a holiday in southern France and returned to the capital as the stand-off took an increasingly political turn, with senior politicians urging an apparently inflexible government to compromise.
Juppe met Gilles de Robien of the centre-right UDF, junior coalition partner, who broke with the official line by meeting representatives of the protesters and suggesting negotiations with the government and deputies of all parties.
"These people want a dialogue which has been interrupted. They want a moratorium (on the expulsion orders) while talks take place," de Robien, UDF floor leader at the National Assembly, told a news conference.
"I'm going to pass on messages to the government. It's up to the government to listen or not," he added, insisting that his initiative was a personal one and not a mediation attempt.
He later said in a statement he had relayed his remarks to Juppe.
The protesters, who include 110 children, are in Saint-Bernard church surrounded by hundreds of sympathisers committed to preventing police from seizing them. The hunger strikers have been drinking sugared tea and eating vitamins.
Abubakar Diop, the immigrants' spokesman, said he hoped a solution would soon be found. "Each side wants to come out of this with dignity. We have to start talking again," he said.
The government, with an eye on voters of the far-right and anti-immigrant National Front, stood firm.
Interior Minister Jean-Louis Debre, who has repeatedly rejected a compromise, advised "cry-babies" to read French laws.
De Robien's party was itself divided, with Urban Affairs Minister Jean-Claude Gaudin warning against any compromise.
Left-wing party leaders, trade unions and human rights groups kept up the pressure with a petition urging President Jacques Chirac, who is on holiday on the Riviera, to intervene and launch talks to avert "the risk of a human tragedy".
The 22 signatories included Socialist Lionel Jospin, Communist Robert Hue, Louis Viannet, head of the pro-Communist CGT union, and Fode Sylla of the SOS Racism association.
At the Saint-Bernard church in the heavily immigrant Goutte d'Or neighbourhood, hundreds of supporters formed a human barricade around the clock to prevent a possible police raid.
The protest by mostly Malian immigrants has made newspaper headlines but does not appear to have rallied widespread support. A new march was planned in Paris on Wednesday.
Lawyers say the immigrants' status is a legal tangle ranging from some who are entitled to stay, to others who can be expelled outright, and yet others whose situation has become unclear following controversial 1993 laws to curb immigration.
Serbia's Sartid Steel Works has raised production to pre-sanctions levels, producing over 200,000 tonnes of iron and steel in July, the Iron and Steel Industry Association said on Tuesday.
"Production in July almost reached the optimum use of capacity as it did in 1989 when it was 85 percent," Savo Markovic of the Association told Reuters.
In the first three months this year production was insignificant as the company prepared to resume production in the wake of war-time sanctions, he said.
In July Sartid, based in the east-Serbian town of Smederevo, produced 63,000 tonnes of iron, 74,000 tonnes of steel and 80,000 tonnes of finished products.
Sartid fired its furnace in March, and from April to the end of July produced a total of 228,000 tonnes of iron, 222,000 tonnes of steel and 222,000 tonnes of finished products.
"This production is quite good considering Sartid stopped producing iron and steel at the beginning of 1993," said Markovic. "It is even above expectations."
Sartid received about $122 million in credits in the past six months to kick-start the plant -- mostly from Swiss banks.
The money stabilised production at an average of 75 percent capacity with only one of four blast furnaces operating. Under the embargo plant ran at a mere 15 percent of its capacity.
Sartid's chief executive Dusan Matkovic last week said the plant's exports rose to $1 million a day after almost four years of idleness under the international trade embargo.
"Sartid must export and pay back its debts," Markovic said. "It cannot sell all its production on the domestic market."
The domestic market can absorb only about 15 percent of the plant's output as the republic's metal industry -- the main consumer of Sartid's products -- is still sluggish.
As much as 95 percent of Sartid's raw materials are imported -- crippling the factory during sanctions.
Taiwan Vice-President Lien Chan's secretive journey has taken him to the former Soviet republic of Ukraine, a state-funded television station said on Tuesday.
"After Vice-President Lien mysteriously disappeared in New York (on Sunday), he made a brief stopover in Vienna and then flew to the Ukrainian capital Kiev," Taiwan Television said in its midday broadcast.
The broadcast gave no source for the information.
The latest report follows a flurry of rumours since Monday that Lien had arrived in various European nations.
China regards Nationalist-ruled Taiwan as a rebel province ineligible for foreign ties and has sought to isolate it diplomatically since a civil war separated them in 1949.
Last week China denounced Lien's transit stop in New York.
Taiwan's authoritative United Daily News, also giving no source for its information, said in its Tuesday editions that Lien would meet in Kiev with Ukraine's head of state.
Officials in Taipei declined to comment on the reports.
Ukraine recognises the communist government in Beijing, not Taiwan's exiled Republic of China, but has made clear its desire for better ties with Taiwan and its export-driven economy.
Taiwan had donated rice and medicine to help Ukraine and both sides were mulling setting up representative offices to boost economic ties, the television said.
"Bilateral relations should improve after Vice-President Lien's visit," the television said.
Reports swirled in Taipei that Lien, a billionaire who is also the island's premier, was bound for Hungary, Spain, Austria, Switzerland or even Belarus or Poland.
Foreign Minister John Chang said on Monday that Lien, in transit in New York on Sunday after visiting the Dominican Republic, had made a detour to a "third country" where Taiwan has no diplomatic ties. He declined to say which country.
The Czech Republic and Austria are still smarting from Beijing's diplomatic tirades after Lien visited those two countries in mid-1995.
Beijing downgraded its U.S. ties after Washington allowed Taiwan President Lee Teng-hui to make a private visit in June 1995 and has only recently taken steps to mend relations.
Taiwan's diplomatic allies were cut to 30 on late on Monday after Niger renewed diplomatic relations with China. Taiwan's foreign ministry severed diplomatic ties with the West African state shortly after the announcement.
South African forestry minister Kader Asmal said on Tuesday about 146,000 ha of commercial forests under state control were the cause of "huge" financial losses and hinted that they might be privatised.
"In its present form it is anything but commercial," Asmal told reporters during a parliamentary briefing.
"I inherited these forests from the previous homeland administrations ... and the biggest problem is that they are 100 percent overstaffed," he said.
"I had an audit done and the picture that emerged is very bleak...the current excess expenditure over income is huge, which means a heavy drain on the fiscus," Asmal said, without giving figures.
He said "some proposals" had been made on how to deal with the problem which he would discuss in the cabinet committee on privatisation.
"I cannot divulge any of the proposals at this stage," he said.
Hotel bednights sold to foreign tourists slumped by 29.3 percent in June 1996 compared to the year ago period, new figures from South Africa's Central Statistical Service show.
The decline reflects, in part, a high comparative month since a large number of visitors came to South Africa a year ago for the World Cup Rugby tournament.
But a fall in foreign bednights sold, to 137,141 in June 1996 from 193,881 in June 1995, underscores the sharp slowdown in South Africa's tourist industry.
According to the South African Tourist Board, visitor arrivals in the first five months of the year grew just 0.2 percent, down from 30 percent a year ago.
Much of the stagnation is blamed on violent crime which officials say is scaring off foreign visitors.
"The decline can be put down to perceptions about personal safety and the negative publicity which South Africa has received as a result of its crime problem," Satour research head James Seymour told Reuters last week.
While most holidaymakers have no trouble, police figures show South Africa is one of the world's most crime-ridden societies. A total of 1.98 million serious crimes were reported last year, with only half solved, including 36,888 rapes, 18,983 murders and 66,838 armed robberies.
Satour believes South Africa has the potential to increase tourism over 10 percent a year into the next century, after the market was kick-started by the country's first all-race elections in 1994. But this target is out of reach for 1996.
Last year nearly 1.1 million foreign tourists visited South Africa. That was 50 percent up on 1994, but still a pinprick compared with the 40 million who flock to Spain each year.
Dublin is set to consolidate its claim to be the key centre for foreign investment into South Korea, helped by revived interest in specialist funds and the Korean government's efforts to encourage funds from abroad.
"The Korea funds started as a highly leveraged financing mechanism in the days when interest rates in Korea were in the high teens -- 16-18 percent," said David Dillon of legal firm Dillon Eustace, which set up the first Korea fund.
Around 600 funds are listed in Dublin, excluding dozens of "sub-funds" within umbrella structures.
Recent weakness in Korea's equity market has caused a lull with only six Korea funds being registered in Dublin so far this year. But industry sources say interest is picking up again, especially for yet-to-be-approved Korea bond funds, which will allow foreign investors access to local currency bonds.
Fund managers in London said on Tuesday the current wave of student protests on reunification with North Korea had had no impact on positive investor sentiment towards South Korea.
Dublin has little competition in Europe. Luxembourg and Belgium's offshore centre do not have a tax treaty, and although Britain has one, the opportunity was never taken up.
The London Stock Exchange has only a handful of Korea vehicles, among them Schroders' $275 million closed-end Korea fund launched in 1987 and its Seoul Fund, a sterling-denominated British unit trust.
Fund managers say it is only slightly cheaper to list in Dublin but praise its responsive, flexible regulatory structure. One manager said Labuan was "not perceived to have the quality of staff, services and infrastructure of Dublin."
The proposed Korea bond funds will propel Dublin to the centre of the Korea market just as the Korean government is beginning to open up access to foreign investors as part of preparations to join the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development (OECD).
"If they were approved it would be a recognition of Dublin's standing as an offshore financial centre," said a UK-based fund manager.
The increase in the minimum wage signed into law by President Bill Clinton on Tuesday is the 18th since the minimum standard was introduced more than half a century ago at just 25 cents an hour.
President Franklin Roosevelt signed the Fair Labor Standards Act on Oct. 24, 1938, establishing a minimum wage of a quarter per hour and a maximum work week of 44 hours, and banning child labor.
Adjusted for inflation, the equivalent hourly wage today would come to approximately $2.75.
At the time, 25 cents could buy three 12 oz. boxes of cornflakes. A 10-pound sack of flour cost almost 40 cents.
The first minimum wage law excluded large sections of the labor force including farm workers and domestic help.
Later changes broadened the scope of the wage requirement to include retail and service industries.
The minimum wage was last raised in 1991 to $4.25 after a 10-year deadlock on the issue between Congress and the Reagan and Bush administrations.
According to Labor Department statistics, 10 million people earn an hourly wage of between $4.25, the current minimum wage, and $5.15, to which it will rise in September next year, when the two-stage increase signed by Clinton is completed.
Most of them work as harvesters, janitors and child care providers and in the retail and food service industries. Four in 10 minimum wage earners are the sole bread winners of their families, the department said.
The Australian Treasury published these economic forecasts as the basis for its budget for the year to June 1997.
All figures are percent changes unless otherwise stated.
(b) Calculated using annual original data.
(c) 1995/96 outcomes are Treasury estimates.
(f) Percentage point contribution to growh in GDP (a).
(h) Estimate in the final column represents the forecast level in the June quarter 1997.
Indian soymeal exporters are hesitating to sign fresh contracts in the absence of clear estimates of soybean output for 1996/97 (Nov-Oct).
This is despite prevailing high prices, traders said on Tuesday.
The industry had set a goal of 4.5 million tonnes for soybean production in 1996/97 when sowing began in July, but traders expect output to be 20 percent below target due to erratic weather in growing areas.
India produced 4.45 million tonnes in 1995/96.
Sowings for 1996/97 were delayed by almost a month due to late rains in central India. Thereafter torrential rains washed away some of the new sowings, and replanting had to be done.
Traders said uneven rains this year had made it hard to estimate the crop.
"Despite offer of higher prices for the new season, contracts were few because Indian soymeal exporters are hesitant to sign any new contracts," said Davish Jain, chairman of Soybean Processors Association of India (SOPA).
Traders said export contracts for only 20,000 tonnes of soymeal had been signed so far, against 75,000 tonnes at the same stage last year.
"Contracts for soymeal yellow for the new season started from $238 per tonne f.a.s. (free alongside ship) and are presently quoted around $245-250, which was around $185-188 per tonne at the start of the season in 1995/96," said oilmeal trader Satyanarayan Saboo.
Soybean arrivals in the markets of central India, the hub of India's soy industry, were around 500 tonnes per day compared with 20,000 tonnes at the start of the season in November.
Industry officials said India's soymeal exports in 1995/96 were expected to be around 2.6 million tonnes, higher than an earlier estimate of 2.4 million.
However, traders said no estimates of soymeal exports in 1996/97 had been made.
Bulk soymeal yellow was quoted at $270-271 per tonne f.a.s., the same as last week.
Spot soybeans were quoted at 11,800-12,100 rupees per tonne, against 8,700-8,800 during the peak season in November.
Soybeans in plant delivery condition ruled at 12,200-12,500 rupees, against around 9,300-9,400 in November.
CompuServe Corp president and chief executive officer Bob Massey said Tuesday that despite a $0.32 a share first-quarter loss and a projected second-quarter loss, the outlook is positive for the on-line services firm.
"Moving into the second quarter we're seeing an increase in usage in the CompuServe Information Service," Massey said in a telephone interview.
Subscribers declined in the first quarter ended July 31 but Massey said that may be weather-related. "I think in general the trend is in a positive direction," he said.
CompuServe has addressed subscriber declines by upgrading its infrastructure to improve speed and performance and is releasing a new software product, CompuServe 3.0, that is easier to use and has an integrated Internet browser, he said.
"We are expecting that we will have a loss in the second quarter in the neighborhood of $0.10-$0.15 and that ... the earnings will improve from that point forward," Massey said in a telephone interview.
Earlier Tuesday CompuServe reported on its first quarter, warned of the expected second-quarter loss and said it expects improvements in the second half.
He said the corporate service, which he called the company's "crown jewel," gained 43 customers in the first quarter, bringing the total to more than 1,000.
At July 31, CompuServe said, it had 3.3 million direct worldwide subscribers and, with NiftyServe, its Japanese licensee, a total of 5.2 million. WOW!, a new service for novice users introduced four months ago, grew to 92,000 users, and the SPRYNET Internet access serviced grew to 163,000.
The Australian government on Tuesday announced tax incentives worth about A$500 million a year to encourage people to take out private health insurance and to wean rich people off the public Medicare health system.
Treasurer Peter Costello, handing down the 1996/97 (July/June) budget here, also announced a one percent rise in the Medicare income levy for people who earn over A$50,000 a year and who do not take out private health insurance.
But this will be offset by the cost of rebates for people who are privately insured -- forecast at an extra A$489 million in outlays in 1998/99, the incentive scheme's first full year.
"Medicare will remain, bulk billing is unchanged. But people will be given greater choice to take out private health insurance," Costello told parliament in his budget speech.
"This will stem the declining rate of health insurance and secure the funding of our health system."
"The government will work with the pathology industry to slow the unsustainable growth in pathology outlays under the Medical Benefits Scheme," Costello said.
The government will also stop funding the national dental programme, saving over A$100 million a year from 1997/98, and adjust childcare subsidies to save about A$35 million in 1997/98.
China is unlikely to need to buy rice on the international market to make up for flood damage to domestic crops, Far East traders said on Tuesday.
No China inquiries for rice were reported by traders in China, Hong Kong, Singapore and Thailand.
China's Futures Herald newspaper, quoting State Grain Reserve Administration statistics, said on Saturday that although flood damage had reduced the early rice harvest and was likely to slow planting of late rice, total output for 1996 was expected to be unaffected.
Rice imports could not go ahead without central government approval, and the process of issuing quotas and licences could take weeks or even months, trading sources said.
"Many farmers lost the season's first crop of rice in the floods and were unable to plant for the second harvest, leaving them dependent on food aid until their next crop, in one year's time," said Thorir Gudmundsson.
"For the second crop, they need to plant in July, and it is now mid-August," he said.
The notion that China might need to import rice to meet demand provided some underlying support to rice futures prices on the Chicago Board of Trade (CBOT) on Monday.
Chicago rice futures have been underpinned by a recent U.S. report that China bought 20,000 tonnes of Vietnamese white rice for prompt July shipments and that additional purchases were expected.
But very little movement in domestic Chinese rice prices has been seen over the past three months, traders said.
Traders in China quoted domestic prices at 2,200-2,300 yuan ($265-$277) a tonne for low quality long grain rice; 2,600-2,700 yuan ($313-$325) for high quality long grain rice; up to 2,800 yuan ($337) for low quality short grain rice; and 3,000 yuan ($361) for high quality short grain rice.
More than 500 people were killed by the July floods in Hunan alone, with the national death toll from floods and typhoons surpassing 2,700, according to the government.
The State Planning Commission (SPC) would issue a national quota, which would then be allocated to provincial SPC offices, which would then distribute the quota to trading companies, trading sources said.
Rice, along with wheat, corn and soybeans, is considered a strategic grain and is thus tightly regulated.
About 90 percent of China's early rice crop of 50 million tonnes is grown in Hunan, Guangxi, Guangdong, Jiangxi and Zhejiang provinces. China has three rice crops a year.
A Chinese analyst predicted earlier this month that the flooding could cut early rice output by between 10 and 20 percent. This would reduce the total 1996 rice crop by up to four percent for a total output figure of about 180 million tonnes.
Silver prices were at their highest levels since mid-June on Tuesday after speculative buying sent the New York market surging overnight, dealers said.
Gold followed only reluctantly, but market analysts said it could eventually make a go of breaking through its recent price ceiling at just under $390 an ounce.
Silver was indicated at $5.20 an ounce, up eight cents from Monday's London close and its highest price since June 19.
It eased a bit as dealers took their profits in early European business after reaching a peak of $5.26 overnight.
But several dealers said they saw it venturing higher later this week.
"There has seen some good hedge-fund buying of silver call options, and also the underlying (silver metal) recently," a dealer said.
Options are popular with market speculators as they offer a cheap way into betting on price movements.
An option gives its owner the right but not the obligation to buy or sell a commodity at a set price at some specified future date.
"It's a purely technical move, but I can see it going for $5.30 this week," the dealer added.
Technical analysts or chartists who follow detailed charts of past prices noted that the rally could run into selling at silver's 200-day moving average price of $5.33 per ounce.
In contrast, bullion fixed at just $387.10 an ounce, versus $386.40 on Monday afternoon and $386.25 in the morning.
"Gold has had a bit of a dismal performance. The move seems to be just in silver," one dealer said.
But some chartists said gold has scope to move higher.
"Obviously much depends on gold's ability to clear the critical resistance immediately below $390," said analyst Elli Gifford of Investment Research of Cambridge.
"But silver's recovery following what is looking to be a false breakdown earlier below $5.00 adds to the evidence this may occur," she added.
Some analysts said gold was being cautious ahead of the U.S. Federal Open market Committee (FOMC) meeting in New York later on Tuesday in case of surprises regarding interest rates.
Another dampener was a slump in the South African rand.
"There's been some (South African gold) producer selling with the weaker rand," a dealer said, referring to the currency's overnight slump to 4.59 to the U.S. dollar.
Palladium was slightly firmer, up $0.60 at $124.65 and off recent 2-1/2 year lows. But dealers were disappointed palladium had not absorbed more strength from silver.
The same was true for platinum, which was up just $1.10 at $399.50, dealers said.
Japan will change the components making up its consumer price index (CPI) to better measure price moves by adding 37 items and dropping 18 others, an official of the Management and Coordination Agency said on Tuesday.
The agency will use 1995 as the base year for CPI data to be released from August, updating data currently using 1990 as a base year.
Newly added items include beer, imported rice, ties, game machines, tickets to soccer games, golf fees and delivered pizza.
Traditional socks worn with the kimono, corn beef, cement, guitars and children's bicycles are among the items to be excluded.
The CPI measures the average price of a basket of goods purchased by households.
The new CPI will cover 580 items, the official said.
Shareholders of Swiss temporary personnel firm Adia on Tuesday approved a merger with Ecco of France that will create Adecco SA, rival to the world's biggest jobs group, Manpower Inc of the U.S.
Shareholders voted in favour of the move at a special annual general meeting by approving a capital increase for Adia.
"Whilst the merger will unlock substantial long-term value for the shareholders of both our companies, we also believe strongly that there are signifanct benefits to be gained for our clients and colleagues," Adia chairman Klaus Jacobs said.
The capital increase is intended to fulfill an Adia offer of share swaps or cash for Ecco shares, making way for Adia capital to become the stock of the new group.
Adia said it had been offered 98 percent of Ecco's shares for cash or swap. The remainder will be bought on the market, Adia said in a statement after the shareholder meeting.
Shareholders voted for a nominal capital increase of 95,347,000 Swiss francs ($78.86 million) through issuing shares worth a nominal 10 Swiss francs each, priced at issue at 43.23 Swiss francs.
The measure will raise a total of 412,185,081 Swiss francs.
"The newly created Adia bearer shares (par value 10 Swiss francs) will have the same status as the existing ones in every respect and will be fully paid for by non-cash capital contributions in the form of Ecco SA shares", the statement said.
Adia said the capital increase was expected to be completed in the course of this week.
Adecco shares will be listed where Adia is now present, on the Swiss Exchnage and as ADR's (American Depositery Receipts) listed on NASDAQ in the United States.
The Adecco shares will also be listed in Paris in place of Ecco.
Adia said Adecco's market share will be 27 percent in France, 21 percent in Australia, 26 percent in Switzerland, 27 percent in Spain, and four percent in the United States.
Peter Pfister, Adia chief financial officer and who will take the same post at Adecco, declined at a news conference declined to make any detailed projections about the results expected by the new company.
However, he said cash flow in coming years for the new firm would be "strong" and added that there would be synergies.
He repeated an earlier forecast that Adecco would see a net loss for 1997, its first full year, due to goodwill amortisation.
Adia chief executive John Bowmer told the news conference that Adia had shown strong growth in the second and third quarters of its current business year, which ends September 30.
"Sales have bounced back in the U.S. on a year on year basis to (a growth rate of) 15 percent," he said.
Growth was also strong in Britain and the Netherlands but flat in Germany and Switzerland. Bowmer said.
A.G. Edwards & Sons, Inc.
Roosevelt & Cross, Inc.
Advest, Inc.
Smith Barney Inc.
Dean Witter Reynolds Inc.
New York State on Tuesday said its unemployment rate rose to 6.6 percent in July, up 0.5 percentage point from June, but the increase, as well as a drop in jobs, were attributed to the usual seasonal decline.
"Each year, the job count declines in July because of huge summer staff reductions at public and private schools," said Thomas Rodick, director of the Division of Research and Statistics at the state Labor Department.
He added that the unemployment rate in turn was pushed higher by students seeking jobs. The year-ago unemployment rate for the state was slightly lower at 6.4 percent.
New York State continues to lag the nation, which had a lower overall unemployment rate of 5.6 percent in July.
In July 1996, the state's total number of nonfarm jobs fell 95,000 to 7,929 million. This was in line with similar decreases seen during this period for the past 10 years. In the private sector, the jobs total dropped 39,600.
Unemployment in New York City shot up 0.6 percentage point to 9.1 percent in July, exceeding the year-ago level of 8.4 percent.
And the eight counties in the New York area also underpeformed the rest of the state in July, as the unemployment rate rose 0.6 percentage point to 8.4 percent, while shedding 35,100 jobs.
The Labor Department offered the following breakdown of the industries that achieved gains in jobs and those with losses.
The Venezuelan closed flat at 474.25/475.25 per dollar, buoyed by Central Bank dollar sales into an active market led by fierce interbank trade, dealers said.
"Dollar demand was strong, but the Bank sold throughout the session, buoying the bolivar," said one broker, adding that it seemed as though the Bank had set 474.50 as the day's ceiling.
"It was a day of speculative interbank trade, especially in the morning," said another trader.
Saudi Arabia on Tuesday beheaded a convicted Saudi murderer, bringing the total number of executions so far this year in the kingdom to around 25.
An Interior Ministry statement, quoted by the Kuwait News Agency, said that the man was found guilty of stabbing to death a fellow Saudi citizen.
On Sunday a Saudi woman was executed for killing her husband by shooting him three times in his sleep.
Saudi Arabia publicly beheads by the sword convicted drug smugglers, rapists, murderers and other criminals under its enforcement of Sharia Islamic law.
Two East Timor youths entered the Japanese embassy compound in Jakarta on Tuesday seeking political asylum but then fled, a Japanese diplomat said.
"They jumped over the front fence. They said they wanted to see a doctor and go overseas, but as we were asking for more information they ran away, outside the compound," diplomat Akira Nagai said.
"They looked young but we did not have time to ask them their age," he said. "They ran themselves. We did not expel them."
Nagai said embassy guards had seen the two men outside the compound earlier with two companions.
In November, 21 East Timorese broke into the Japanese embassy compound and left a day later for asylum in Portugal.
Following the incident, the embassy added an extra layer of barbed wire to the metal fence.
Since September last year 84 East Timorese have left for Portugal after seeking asylum in foreign embassies in Jakarta.
Portugal is the former colonial ruler of East Timor, a small enclave north of Australia invaded by Indonesia in 1975 and unilaterally annexed the following year.
The United Nations does not recognise Indonesia's rule in East Timor and regards Lisbon as the administering power.
The following is a direct contribution from statistician F.O. Licht in Ratzeburg, Germany. Please address any queries to Helmut Ahlfeld on +00 49 4541 88920.
GERMANY - The second sugar beet test of 16 August shows a fairly satisfactory increase in root weight (131 grams vs 105 grams last year and the average (1991/95) of 122 grams). However, root weight remained with 477 grams, 6 per cent below that of last year and 7.8 per cent below average. As a result of the fairly low increase in sugar content, the increase in sugar per beet was only 23.8 grams vs 24.7 grams last year and the average of 23.5 grams. The sugar weight per ha on 12 August reached 6.07 tonnes, 2.9 per cent less than last year and 3.80 per cent below average. These figures point to a below average crop this season. However, what should not be overlooked is the high number of plants per ha which offers a good potential for further improvement and the high weight of beet leaves, which makes the plants more resistant against future dry spells.
FRANCE - The Fench beet test results of 12 August reflect recent unfavourable weather conditions. The increase in root weight was only 8.86 tonnes per ha against 9.99 tonnes last year and the average of 10.47 tonnes. The increase in sugar content was also below average which led to a highly unsatisfactory increase in sugar weight per ha (+1.49 tonnes vs 1.85 tonnes last year and the average of 1.78 tonnes). Sugar yield per ha on 12 August reached 6.21 tonnes, 10 per cent below that of last year and 15 per cent below average. These figures confirm that France will have a lower crop than last year's 4.601 million tonnes in raw value terms.
SINGAPORE - Sugar imports in April 1996 amounted to 27,977 tonnes, raw value, sharply up on last year's 14,179 tonnes. This brought cumulative imports in the first four months of 1996 (January/April) up to 95,692 tonnes against 90,264 tonnes in the like period the previous year. Total imports in 1995 reached 271,334 tonnes against 285,420 tonnes in 1994. Major countries of origin in January/April 1996 were Thailand with 61,000 tonnes raws against 8,000 tonnes and Malaysia with 20,901 tonnes whites compared to 18,688 tonnes. Sugar exports in January/April 1996 reached 4,618 tonnes, down from 7,082 tonnes in 1995. Total exports in 1995 amounted to 22,136 tonnes against 23,391 tonnes in 1994.
HONG KONG - Sugar imports in June 1996 amounted to 17,348 tonnes, raw value, down from 34,316 tonnes imported in June 1995. This brought cumulative imports in the first half of 1996 (January/June) up to 122,574 tonnes, hardly changed from last year's 121,255 tonnes. Total imports in 1995 reached 237,332 tonnes against 208,640 tonnes in 1994. Major countries of origin in the first half of 1996 were South Korea with 56,432 tonnes whites against 59,348 tonnes, Australia with 13,802 tonnes whites compared to 8,945 tonnes and Thailand with 12,000 tonnes raws against 12,500 tonnes. Sugar exports in June 1996 amounted to 3,124 tonnes which brought cumulative exports in January/June 1996 up to 38,682 tonnes compared to 24,553 tonnes in 1995. Total exports in 1995 reached 67,970 tonnes against 42,696 tonnes in 1994. The major country of destination in January/June 1996 continued to be China with 25,605 tonnes whites against 17,150 tonnes.
Syria has issued an international tender for 26,000 tonnes of raws and 26,000 tonnes of whites for October shipment. August 27 is set as the final date for offers.
South Korean riot police on Tuesday ended a seven-day occupation of a university campus by more than 2,000 students calling for reunification with communist North Korea.
Aug 13 - Students begin three-day festival at Yonsei University calling for unification with communist North Korea. Hundreds of radicals, who also demand the withdrawal of 37,000 U.S. troops stationed in the South, are blocked from leaving Seoul to march towards the border. The festival is outlawed.
Aug 14 - Riot police backed by helicopters and armoured vehicles firing tear gas storm Yonsei to break up the festival attended by about 2,000 students. Students shelter at a classroom complex and a science block. Police ring the campus.
Aug 15 - About 6,000 students gather at Yonsei to mark the 51st anniversary of the end of World War Two that liberated Korea from 35-year Japanese colonial rule but divided the peninsula into communist North and the capitalist South. Police storm Yonsei again.
Aug 16 - Police raid the campus again to try to arrest about 3,600 students continuing violent protests. They pull back after failing to seize the students. Some students sneak off the campus into surrounding hills.
Aug 17 - More than 10,000 riot police storm the university for the fourth straight day and mass around the two buildings. More than 2,000 students hole up inside.
Aug 18 - Police step up pressure on students by stopping parents from delivering food and medicine. Police seek to cut power supply to the buildings but the university refuses permission because a blackout could spoil costly projects under way in science block laboratories.
Aug 19 - Weary students begin fainting and ambulances rush about a dozen of them, some unconscious, to hospital. More than 10 students surrender. Police warn they could use firearms to break up violent protests. Prime Minister Lee Soo-sung vows severe punishment for radical leaders but promises leniency for students who have simply taken part in occupation.
Aug 20 - Crack police units backed by helicopters storm the classroom building to end seven-day occupation. Hours later, students at the science block escape into narrow alleyways and hills surrounding Yonsei. Police arrest more than 1,000 students from the captured complex and more than 700 fleeing from the science block.
M&G Group Plc said it had submitted proposals to take over management of the embattled Kleinwort European Privatisation Investment Trust Plc (KEPIT).
"The only way to reduce the discount to net asset value at which KEPIT is trading is to look at unitisation," M&G spokeswoman Rachel Medill said.
August 19 was the closing date for bids for the 500 million pound trust, which attracted record subscriptions for a British investment trust when it was launched in 1994. Unitisation means shareholders would then hold units in a trust that owned shares, rather than owning shares directly.
Specialist bond traders made no bids for 150 billion lire of three-year and 150 billion lire of five-year fixed-rate bonds (BTP) offered by the Italian Treasury.
Earlier, the Treasury received bids for 3.47 trillion of three-year and 2.88 trillion of five-year Btps at an open auction, against 1.5 trillion lire each of paper on offer.
The auction prices were set at 100.25 and 99.00 respectively.
NeoRx Corp Tuesday said the Food and Drug Administration licensed Verluma, a monoclonal antibody-based imaging agent used to determine the stage of disease in patients with small cell lung cancer.
In a statement, the company said it earned a $4.5 million milestone payment from the Dupont Merck Pharmaceutical Co, a venture between DuPont Co and Merck & Co Inc. DuPont Merck will market and distribute Vermula in North America and pay NeoRx royalties on sales.
Denmark's consumer confidence indicator was +6 in August, up from +3 in July 1996, the National Statistics Office said on Tuesday.
NOTE: The survey asks a cross section of Denmark's population its views on current personal and national economic trends, along with consumer intentions for coming months. Changes in consumer confidence are indicated by a higher or lower weighted rating, rather than by index.
New Zealand ADRs ended mostly lower in the U.S. while the Dow Jones Index gained 21.82 points to close at 5,721.26.
Price movements of NZ stocks listed in the U.S., Britain and Australia.
Notes - In New York, Telecom's American Depository Receipts are traded in bundles of 16 shares, while both the Fletcher Challenge shares are in bundles of 10 each. Tranz Rail ADSs are groups of three ordinary shares.
- London prices are mid-rates.
The Hong Kong government has shaved more than HK$1 billion off the amount Cheung Kong (Holdings) Ltd and Hutchison Whampoa Ltd should pay for development rights for a reclamation site in Hung Hom, the Hong Kong Standard newspaper said on Tuesday.
A company, equally owned by Cheung Kong and Hutchison, entered into a joint venture agreement with the Kowloon-Canton Railway Corp (KCRC) last December for the joint development of a commercial complex on the site.
The paper said a Lands Department official said the Hung Hom offer was "between HK$3 and HK$4 billion" and quoted an informed market source as saying the government had shaved more than HK$1 billion off the HK$4.5 billion it had previously asked for the site, the newspaper said.
Officials from Cheung Kong, Hutchison the KCRC and the government were not immediately available for comment.
The Standard said the KCRC was handling the negotiatings with the government, while Cheung Kong and Hutchison would pay the premium and all development costs.
The developers had three weeks to consider the offer, it said.
The project, to be completed in 1999, would generate a total gross floor area of more than 130,000 square metres.
- Four people died in an overnight fire at a group residence for the disabled in Philadelphia's Chester County suburb of Exton, police said Tuesday.
The dead included a female counsellor and three elderly male residents, two of whom needed wheelchairs. They were found inside the one-story house after firemen extinguished the fierce flames. A neighbour alerted by his barking dog sounded the alarm at 2:20 a.m. EDT (0620 GMT).
West Whiteland Township police withheld the identity of the dead while relatives were being notified.
Yellow Freight System, a unit of Yellow Corp, said Tuesday it will implement a diesel fuel surcharge as of September 3 to offset rising diesel prices seen since the first of the year.
"The prolonged nature of the recent fuel price increase has made it necessary that Yellow recover some of those additional costs," the company said in a release, adding that industry and government sources report fuel prices are at a six-year high.
The fuel surcharge will be adjusted each Wednesday based on the U.S. National Average Fuel Index of the prior Monday, Yellow said.
When the index is between 110 and 115 cents, for example, the surcharge will be 0.5 percent, between 115 and 120 cents one percent, and so on, Yellow said.
Few extra items are scheduled at what is expected to be a short meeting of the European Union's cereals management committee on Thursday, EU member state officials said.
The main focus will be on the grain export tenders which will resume after no meeting was held last week due to a public holiday in Belgium.
The officials said that durum wheat and oats import duties were again on the agenda but discussion could once more be postponed.
A new draft regulation on processed animal products may also be discussed.
NOTE: Results for 1995 periods are pro forma and assume Intimate Brands IPO, sale of 60 pct interest in WFN, and 85 million shr self-tender had been consummated at beginning of period.
Historical net was $48.8 million, or $0.14/shr, for Q2, and $87.97 million, or $0.25/shr, for six months.
Periods ended Aug 3, 1996 vs July 29, 1995.
Toronto stocks rallied to close higher on Tuesday, surging ahead on strength in the important resource sectors.
"Canadian gold stocks led Canadian stock prices higher," said Richardson Greenshields analyst Linda Lehman in a market report. The Toronto Stock Exchange's key 300 Composite Index jumped 33.32 points to reach 5150.89 points.
So far in August the key index has climbed out of its July lows to reach heights it has not hit since early June.
"We're not far from our highs," said P and C Holdings president Ron Meisels. Toronto's key index hit its all-time high of 5248 points on May 28, 1986.
At this point in the bullish economic cycle, market players are investing in resource stocks, Meisels said.
Markets are also now debating whether the Bank of Canada will ease short-term interest rates since the U.S. Federal Open Market Committee did not raise rates at its meeting today, analysts have said.
Canada's central bank can risk the rate cut without excessively widening bond spreads between the two nations. This may help boost interest in equities.
Golds led all of Toronto's 14 sub-indices higher, gaining 1.38 percent. They were followed by transportation issues, base metals and media issues.
Advancing stocks beat out declining ones 507 to 361, while 275 traded unchanged.
Among active stocks, heavyweight Barrick Gold Corp. jumped C$0.35 to C$37.90.
Black Swan Gold Mines Ltd. was Toronto's most active stock in turnover of 2.7 million shares. The small prospector slipped 0.06 to 1.44 after recent strength as investors await drill results.
An overture by China to bring its critics into the team picking Hong Kong's future leadership shows openness but might split the democratic camp in the British colony, analysts said on Tuesday.
Foreign Minister Qian Qichen said this month the 400-member body that will choose the chief executive and legislators who will run the territory after its July 1, 1997, transfer to China could include people with divergent views on democracy.
His remark at a Beijing meeting was taken in the colony as an olive branch towards Hong Kong's popular Democratic Party, which so far has been excluded from transition arrangements.
Although pegged to the acceptance of China's plan for an appointed "provisional legislature" to replace the current fully elected council, the remark was in stark contrast to China's harsh invective against the party over the past year.
The gesture is also fuelling heated discussion in local political circles and newspaper columns about China's motives.
"It might be an attempt to split the democrats, but more probably Beijing has realised that they've failed to split them so far and it's time to get them on board," Hong Kong University political analyst Nihal Jayawickrama told Reuters.
"I'm sure there are elements in the Democratic Party who will feel the urge to respond positively," he said.
But Democratic Party leader Martin Lee last weekend rejected the idea of joining the Selection Committee, saying that would amount to recognition of an illegitimate body.
The party argues that China's plan to scrap the present legislature and appoint a new "provisional" one has no basis in law or in the handover treaties with London.
"So long as China insists that any participant must assist in both selection processes -- Hong Kong's future chief executive and the provisional legislature -- I can't see how they can get the democrats on board," Jayawickrama said.
But he said it was likely the temptation would prove strong for some of Lee's associates and that they would quit the party.
China is very eager to give the Selection Committee a greater air of legitimacy by including some democrats, some China analysts in Hong Kong believe.
"At the end of the day, it's a question of who gets into the committee. And I don't think people like Lee or (deputy party leader) Szeto Wah would get in even if they are nominated," political commentator Andy Ho told Reuters.
The leaders of the party, the biggest in this territory of 6.2 million people, have drawn Beijing's wrath since 1989 when they sided with the student-led, pro-democracy movement that Chinese army tanks crushed in Tiananmen Square.
"We shouldn't jump to the conclusion that China has changed its position towards the Democratic Party," Ho said. "It just wants to create an impression of openness."
Some of China's Hong Kong advisers differ in their view of Qian's remarks. Tsang Yok-Sing, a pro-Beijing politician, has said he did not see them as an invitation to the democrats.
Emily Lau, an outspoken independent democrat who has often riled China's communist rulers, interpreted Qian's comment as a brazen effort to drive a wedge into the democratic movement.
Qian had divided the pro-democracy camp into "people who are prepared to compromise their principles and those who will stand firm", Lau wrote in a column in the South China Morning Post.
"With the scramble for seats on the Selection Committee having begun in earnest, it will rapidly become clear that some members of the pro-democracy camp are eager for a place... These people have long been itching to open dialogue with Beijing and are now only too eager to be given recognition," Lau wrote.
Austrian oil and chemicals group OMV AG said on Tuesday its forecast for flat full-year earnings was based on a conservative outlook for polyolefins in the fourth quarter.
Finance director Wolfgang Ruttenstorfer told a news conference that polyolefin prices in the first half were already well below year-ago levels, squeezing refining and plastics margins.
He forecast worse was to come in the fourth quarter.
"We expect to match our 1995 result, allowing for a significant deterioration in polyolefins in the fourth quarter," Ruttenstorfer said.
"If the downturn does not happen there will be room to improve our full-year result," he added.
In 1995, OMV posted a record pre-tax profit of 2.09 billion schillings and earnings before interest and tax of 2.19 billion.
Ruttenstorfer estimated polyolefin revenues were down by about one billion schillings in the first half of 1996.
Indian power utility Calcutta Electricity Supply Corporation Ltd (CESC) said in a on Tuesday it set a dividend of 35 percent, or 3.50 rupees, per share for the 1995/96 (April/March) financial year.
The company had announced a similar dividend in the previous year.
The company had a net profit of 860.97 million rupees during 1995/96 compared with 660.05 million in the previous year.
The company announced the dividend after a board meeting in Calcutta.
Belgian police are set to ask Scotland Yard for advice as investigations continue into a paedophile network which kidnapped and murdered young children. The investigation widens across Europe. Scotland Yard said today that it would be happy to help in any capacity.
The Granada group's exclusive hotels chain has three potential bidders keen to buy the whole group. The sale of all 17 trophy hotels to a single buyer would be more tax-advantageous to Granada.
Ian Strachan the chief executive of BTR is in talks to sell the conglomerate's U.S. crushed stone and concrete business Tilcon.
Gareth Davies, managing director of Imperial Tobacco (now under Hanson) tells how a company badly in need of new owners 10 years ago is now fit for an life as FTSE 100 stock with a 2.5 billion stg valuation.
Venezuela will meet all its outstanding arrears on internal and external unrestructured debts by the end of the year, high-ranking Finance Ministry officials said.
"Paying off these arrears will be an important first step towards increasing our credibility... which in turn will lead to lower interest rates (on future debt)," Roy Ellis, Public Finance assistant director at the Finance Ministry, told Reuters.
Venezuela had some $500 million in arrears at the end of 1995, Ellis said, and the Finance Ministry is currently preparing a schedule of how to best meet them.
Once paid off, "the Republic will then honor all of its future debts, as they mature," Ellis said.
"But first we have to clear the decks of old debt".
A $900 million debt re-financing law, published August 16 in the National Gazette, paves the way for the government to take on fresh debt to meet delayed payments on debts that matured in 1994 and 1995.
Debt payments delayed in 1996 will be paid down "basically via the budget," Ellis added.
NOTE - Full name of the German insurer is Deutscher Herold, the insurance arm of Deutsche Bank AG. The company said that 1994 figures for life insurance business were calculated by adding numbers for Deutsche Bank's former separate life insurance business and Herold Leben's. Figures for 1995 were based on their merged operations.
Austrian oil and chemicals group OMV AG said on Tuesday it expected to achieve a flat profit this year despite a likely downturn in the second half.
"For the full year we expect a satisfactory group result which should match last year. The second half, like last year, will be characterised by weaker results," OMV said in a letter to shareholders.
In 1995, Austria's biggest industrial group posted a record pre-tax profit of 2.09 billion schillings and earnings before interest and tax (EBIT) of 2.19 billion.
Gas, which contributed a hefty 1.73 billion schillings to group EBIT in 1995, should post stable earnings, OMV said.
It forecast improved full-year results in exploration and production, marketing and chemicals.
Cost-cutting should help reduce the group's full-year loss in exploration and production, despite an expected drop in crude oil prices in the second half, OMV said.
The firm noted its chemicals operations had benefited from restructuring and forecast that its marketing arm would post a positive result if the tax environment did not worsen.
However, OMV said it expected a downturn in plastics and refining. Plastics profits were dampened by weaker polyolefin prices while refining margins were being squeezed by lower ethylene and propylene prices, it said.
A hunger strike by African immigrants fighting expulsion orders divided France's ruling coalition on Tuesday, with senior politicians calling on an apparently inflexible government to compromise.
As the stand-off at a Paris church by 300 protesters, 10 of whom have been fasting for 47 days, took an increasingly political turn, Prime Minister Alain Juppe cut short his holiday and returned to the capital.
Gilles de Robien of the centre-right UDF, junior coalition partner, met representatives of the protesters and suggested negotiations with the government and deputies of all parties.
"These people want a dialogue which has been interrupted. They want a moratorium (on the expulsion orders) while talks take place," de Robien, UDF floor leader at the National Assembly, told a news conference.
"I'm going to pass on messages to the government. It's up to the government to listen or not," he added, insisting that his initiative was a personal one and not a mediation attempt.
The protesters, who include more than 100 children, are holed up in the Saint-Bernard church surrounded by hundreds of sympathisers bent on preventing police from seizing them.
Abubakar Diop, the immigrants' spokesman, said he hoped a solution would soon be found but gave no indication when the fast might end. "Each side wants to come out of this with dignity. We have to start talking again," he said.
The government, with an eye on voters of the far-right and anti-immigrant National Front, stood firm.
Interior Minister Jean-Louis Debre, who has repeatedly rejected any compromise, advised "cry-babies" to read French laws.
De Robien's party was itself divided, with Urban Affairs Minister Jean-Claude Gaudin warning against any compromise.
Left-wing party leaders, trade unions and human rights groups kept up the pressure with a petition urging President Jacques Chirac, who is on holiday on the Riviera, to intervene and launch talks to avert "the risk of a human tragedy".
The 22 signatories included Socialist Lionel Jospin, Communist Robert Hue, Louis Viannet, head of the pro-Communist CGT union, and Fode Sylla of the SOS Racism association.
At the Saint-Bernard church in the heavily-immigrant Goutte d'Or neighbourhood, hundreds of supporters formed a human barricade around the clock to prevent a possible police raid.
"The government is in a terrible bind. The protesters have too much support for the police to intervene," said Dominique Noguere, lawyer for the Human Rights League and some immigrants.
The protest by mostly Malian immigrants, including 110 children, has made newspaper headlines but does not appear to have rallied widespread support. A new march was planned in Paris on Wednesday.
Diop said the fasters were extremely weak. "At one point we asked them to stop their hunger strike because a little piece of paper is not worth dying for. But they have refused," he said.
"Their condition is serious but not desperate," said a doctor at the church. "Nobody needs intensive care now, but things may start to happen," he said.
Lawyers say the immigrants' status is a legal tangle ranging from some people who are entitled to stay, to others who can be expelled outright, and others whose situation has become unclear following controversial 1993 laws to curb immigration.
BAK, one of Switzerland's leading economic research institutes, said it had lowered its 1996 growth forecast for Switzerland due to continued weak consumption, the half-hearted depreciation of the Swiss franc and the lack of stimulus from key trading partners.
BAK said in a statement that it had revised downward its forecast for Switzerland's 1996 Gross Domestic Product (GDP) to a growth of 0.4 percent from a previous forecast of 0.9 percent.
"All in all we assume that Switzerland must face another year of recession," BAK said.
BAK said it had revised down its forecast for private consumption this year by 0.3 percentage points to 0.4 percent from its previous forecast from March.
But BAK said it expects the 1997 GDP to grow 1.5 percent as inflation, low interest rates and a weakening Swiss franc point to economic recovery. Foreign trade should also help growth.
Argentina's main CGT trade union federation said Tuesday it had rescheduled for August 23 a vote on whether to stage a general strike after postponing the ballot because of a gunfight among members of rival unions.
Martnez had called the meeting of the Central Confederal Committee of unions Tuesday for a vote on a proposed 36-hour general strike next month to protest the Peronist government's austerity moves, following up a 24-hour strike on Aug. 8.
The dissident MTA union, which accused Martnez of being too close to the Peronist government, wants a 48-hour strike.
Television footage showed men in white MTA caps shooting with handguns and firing flares from a sports field near the building where unions leaders were set to debate.
CGT and MTA officials swapped accusations of blame for the shoot-out. CGT official Ral Amn said truckers' leader Hugo Moyano provoked the violence by taking hundreds of followers to the meeting, while MTA leader Juan Palacios told reporters the CGT "orchestrated everything from inside...to get the strike called off as ordered by President Carlos Menem."
"We are not delinquents; we are workers," said Palacios. "It was the CGT that called the Confederal Committee, so it should guarantee the safety of everyone there."
The CGT's Martnez started the news conference by "asking publicly for the forgiveness of all the workers of our country for these incidents." He blamed the violence on "tiny sectors trying to spoil the image we all want for Argentine unions."
But he promised he and the CGT leadership would step down if it were proved that the CGT had any role in the violence: "If the courts cannot clear up the facts, I don't want to bear the responsibility for single drop of my brothers' blood."
Belgian judicial authorities said on Tuesday that they were still hopeful that two teenage girls missing in the country's largest child sex scandal would be found alive.
"There are elements that allow us to believe that the two girls are still alive," public prosecutor, magistrate Michel Bourlet told a news conference in this southern town.
He said police were still searching for teenagers An Marchal and Eefje Lambrecks kidnapped by convicted child rapist Marc Dutroux in the port of Ostend last August.
Bourlet called the meeting to quash a groundswell of rumours surrounding the abduction case after 14-year-old Laetitia Delhez and 12-year-old Sabine Dardenne were rescued from a makeshift dungeon in a house owned by Dutroux.
Events turned tragic when, after Friday's discovery of the teenagers, Dutroux led police on Saturday to the bodies of eight-year-olds Julie Lejeune and Melissa Russo buried in another house owned by Dutroux near Charleroi.
Prosecutor Bourlet declined to give any details on the grounds for his optimism. "I will not give any details of the dossier," he said, adding that if there was something to report he would first tell the parents of the two missing girls.
"We are focusing on trying to find An and Eefje. We are still hopeful," Bourlet told a packed conference room.
Dutroux, serving four months in jail for theft at the time, denied responsibility for the deaths of Julie and Melissa, kidnapped in June 1995, of starvation.
But he admitted paying two accomplices 40,000 francs ($1,300) for the girls.
The whereabouts of An and Eefje are unknown. Belgian media speculated the two had been found in the Czech Republic.
However, Bourlet firmly squashed that rumour.
Interpol in the Czech Republic -- one of a number of countries contacted on Tuesday -- said there was no trace of the girls on Czech soil.
Asked whether Belgium had been in touch with authorities in Great Britain, The Netherlands and Slovakia as well as in the Czech Republic, he said, "We have contacts galore...we have contacts with Interpol, but also with others."
Bourlet said Belgian Justice Minister Stefaan De Clerck, who visited the prosecutor's office earlier in Tuesday, had agreed to rent special equipment used in Britain for property searches.
He was referring to devices used in the investigation into Britain's "House of Horrors" serial killings in which a dozen young women were murdered.
Earlier on Tuesday the Central Bureau of Investigation of the Police asked John Bennett, the officer who dealt with the West investigation, for advice in their search for further possible victims of an organised paedophile ring.
New Zealand share prices ended steady but off their peak on Tuesday on moderate turnover, the market reacting little to the Government's sale of Forestry Corp of New Zealand to a New Zealand-Chinese consortium.
The NZSE-40 Capital Index ended 0.54 of a point higher at 2,167.79 on turnover worth NZ$40 million.
Most leaders were slightly firmer, the exception being Carter Holt Harvey, which lost five cents to NZ$3.15 after a disappointing first quarter result.
CHH said earlier its first quarter profit was NZ$56 million, down sharply from $155 million a year earlier.
"I suspect that result is going to disappoint a few people," Luke Koekoek at JB Were said.
Koekoek said it had been a volatile session, the market moving down initially with CHH then recovering.
"There are still a lot of players on the sideline at the moment," he said.
Australia's budget, due on Tuesday night, may have an impact on Wednesday's opening, particularly if it influences the New Zealand dollar and local rates.
China on Tuesday introduced rules governing direct shipping links with Taiwan, ignoring a decades-old ban by the island it regards as a renegade province.
The regulations, which take effect from Tuesday, allow only wholly Chinese-owned or Taiwan-owned shipping companies or joint ventures involving Chinese or Taiwanese shipowners to sail between the two sides, Xinhua news agency said.
Hong Kong's Beijing-backed Wen Wei Po newspaper said the southeastern Chinese cities of Xiamen and Fuzhou would be the first ports to be opened to direct shipping links with Taiwan.
"The conditions for (establishing) direct shipping links are ripe," the newspaper said.
Taiwan's Nationalist government has banned direct air and shipping links with China since 1949 when Chiang Kai-shek's Nationalist troops lost the Chinese civil war to the communists and fled to the island.
With tensions easing since the late 1980s, civilian aircraft and vessels have skirted the ban by stopping over in a third country or territory such as the British colony of Hong Kong or Portuguese-run Macau.
Taiwanese businessmen, who have poured more than $20 billion into China, are eager for direct transport links, but Taiwanese authorities have been reluctant to lift the ban.
The Nationalists, who say they are committed to reunification with China, see direct transport links as their last bargaining chip in talks with the communists.
China has threatened to invade if the island seeks independence.
Under the regulations, shipping companies must apply with the Chinese Ministry of Communications for permission to ply routes between the two sides. The rules made no mention of any need to seek approval from Taiwan authorities.
The ministry has 45 days to decide whether to allow a shipping company to sail between the two sides, according to the regulations.
The rules empower the ministry to warn and seize the unlawful income of shipping companies breaking the rules.
China has poured cold water on a proposal by Taipei to turn Taiwan's Kaohsiung into an extraterritorial port, allowing third party ships to ply routes between the two sides.
The Taipei-based Economic Daily News said on Tuesday Taiwan President Lee Teng-hui had urged the central bank to study how to control capital outflows to China in a further bid to limit the island's economic exposure on its main rival's turf. The central bank denied the report.
Speculation that Taipei might change its China policy has mounted since Lee cautioned last week that the island's economy needed to avoid over-dependence on the mainland.
"The Chinese are not really making much progress on other fronts... They have decided to focus on the three links and apply pressure on the Taiwanese," a Western diplomat in Beijing said. The three links refer to trade, transport and mail.
On the diplomatic front, the rivalry has intensified, analysts say, with China trying hard to isolate the island and limit its contacts with other states.
Taiwan state-funded television said Vice-President Lien Chan was visiting the former Soviet republic of Ukraine,  which formally recognises Beijing. The Ukraine has denied the report.
China announced a diplomatic coup on Monday, persuading the West African nation of Niger to switch recognition to Beijing.
The RABSI (Reuter All Bulgaria Stock Index) was unchanged from Monday's 41.31 points because no shares traded on the Sofia Stock Exchange (SSE) for a twelfth day in a row, brokers said.
One repo deal in treasury paper worth of 1.329 million levs was struck on the SSE, traders said. No repo deals were struck on that bourse on Monday.
The other local bourse, the Bulgarian Stock Exchange (BSE) has been in summer recess since August 5 and will resume trading on September 2.
Irish food company Kerry Group Plc said on Tuesday that it had revised its end-year gearing target up to 90 percent from 70 percent following the acquisition in February of specialist fruit ingredients business Ciprial.
Kerry is aiming to cut its net debt to 328 million Irish pounds at end-1996 from 372 million at the half-year stage, a company spokesman told Reuters.
But it rose to 108 percent by June 30, 1996, mainly due to the 54 million punt purchase of Ciprial and the acquisition of the remaining equity in a joint venture between Solutech and DCA in Australia.
"In the aftermath of the DCA acquisition we said we would take out 100 million Irish pound debt within a two-year period. We were well on target to do that," the spokesman said.
"Having bought Ciprial and with the Australian business, that increased our requirement by 59 million Irish pounds. So our revised target for the end of 1996 is 328 million punts," he added.
The Office of Management and Budget (OMB) said on Tuesday that it did not believe that any "sequestration" is currently needed based on U.S. budget law.
Under U.S. law, across-the-board reductions in spending -- also known as sequestration -- enforce compliance with a series of constraints placed on the U.S. federal budget.
These constraints include annual limits on discretionary spending.
The OMB, in a document released at the White House, found that no such spending reductions are now necessary but added that it would issue a final report 15 days after the current Congress adjourns.
The dollar finished higher versus the yen after a dramatic drop in the U.S. international trade deficit overshadowed fleeting disappointment that the Federal Reserve left interest rates unchanged, experts said.
The U.S. trade gap shrank overall by 23.1 percent in June to $8.11 billion, much less than the $9.4 billion shortfall forecasted by Wall Street economists.
The dollar ended at 108.31/36 yen, higher than 107.93/98 yen at the opening. The U.S. unit closed at 1.4891/96 marks, slightly below 1.4905 marks at the opening.
After the trade figures hit the market, the dollar climbed above 108 yen. The Fed's decision to hold interest rates steady only pressured the dollar temporarily because most traders expected no change in monetary policy anyway.
The mark also gained against the yen despite growing hopes for a cut in the 3.30 percent repo rate after news that German M3 money supply growth slowed to an annualized rate of 8.6 percent in July from 9.6 percent in June. The Bundesbank council meets to discuss monetary policy on Thursday.
Mark/yen traded around 72.75 near the close, up from 72.37 in early New York dealings.
"Once it (mark/yen) broke through there, it was a technical move that pushed it up," said Frank Pusateri, a vice president of corporate foreign exchange at Mellon Bank N.A. "Of course, as (the yen) got weaker againt the mark, (the yen) got weaker against the dollar."
The dollar had also strengthened slightly versus the yen in Asia after remarks by Eisuke Sakakibara, director-general of the Japanese Finance Ministry's International Finance Bureau.
"For them to successfully be able to get out of their doldrums in their economy ... and help the banks recover, they basically need the dollar up," said Credit Commerciale's Pearman.
In other trade, the dollar finished at 1.2067/74 Swiss francs, down from 1.2093/98 at the open.
Sterling rose to US$1.5477/84 from US$1.5445/55.
The dollar edged lower to Canadian $1.3735/40 from C$1.3741/46.
The Australian dollar closed at $0.7852/57.
The Tunisian state has launched a tender for the selling of its majority stake in the capital of yeast company Societe Tunisienne de Levure (STL) as part of its privatisation programme, officials said on Tuesday.
The offer is for the selling of 67,957 shares representing 73.59 percent of the capital of STL which amounts 450,000 dinars.
Rudolf Scharping, parliamentary leader of the opposition Social Democrats, said he considered possible a cut in the top German income tax rate to 40 percent from the current 53 percent.
In an interview with the Hannoversche Allgemeine Zeitung newspaper, Scharping said the SPD would put priority on lowering the lowest rate to 20 percent from 25.9 percent, but that it would also consider a cut in the top rate.
Scharping said his party would prepare a comprehensive proposal on cutting subsidies and taxes by autumn.
Arab-Malaysian Merchant Bank Berhad (AMMB) said on Tuesday it has arranged a 285 million ringgit syndicated term loan for Kuala Lumpur Landmark Sdn Bhd (KL Landmark), a subsidiary of Mycom Berhad.
The loan would finance part of the construction and development cost of the Grand Hyatt Duta hotel in Kuala Lumpur, it said.
Other financial institutions participating in the loan are Arab-Malaysian Finance Berhad, Arab-Malaysian Bank Berhad, Sabah Development Bank Berhad, Bank Kerjasama Rakyat Malaysia Berhad, Kewangan Bersatu Berhad, Public Finance Berhad and AMMB. Mycom is the corporate guarantor for this syndicated term loan, AMMB said in a statement.
The Grand Hyatt Duta is a 53-storey building, comprising a 550-room five-star hotel, service apartments and office space. Total estimated cost of the project is 570 million ringgit.
The project is managed by Olympia Land Berhad, a wholly-owned subsidiary of public-listed Olympia Industries Berhad, which is 57 percent owned by Mycom Berhad.
These are leading stories in Tuesday's afternoon daily Le Monde, dated Aug 21.
-- Left-wing parties unite behind appeal to President Jacques Chirac to negotiate with Africans on hunger strike in Paris church to renew or obtain work and residence papers.
-- Sharp upturn in airline orders surprises planners at Boeing and Aerospatiale.
-- Air France Europe passenger miles rose three percent and revenue per passenger fell two percent in Q2.
-- Nobel prize winning author Isaac Bashevis Singer says the rational mindset that governs us is becoming more and more unreasonable and is now out of control: the challenge is not to change the world but to keep it from falling to pieces.
Yaohan International Holdings Ltd said on Tuesday it plans to privatise its loss making 41.95 percent held Hong Kong and Macau department store unit, Yaohan Hongkong Corp Ltd.
Shares of Yaohan Hongkong, which operates 10 department stores in Hong Kong and Macau, fell three cents to HK$0.34 in early Tuesday trade. Yaohan International rose 10 cents to HK$0.87, after slipping nine cents to HK$0.77 on Monday.
Yaohan International said it would issue a maximum of 94.25 millon new shares, representing 9.53 percent of the existing issued share capital of the company in the privatisation scheme.
Yaohan Hongkong said the loss in 1995/96 was partly caused by a significant increase in rentals for its Shantin store and depreciaton charges related to the new Ma On Shan store.
The proposal was conditional on approvals by shareholders of Yaohan Hongkong and the related authorities.
The company expects the scheme to become effective around the end of October.
NOTE - Daiwa Heavy Industry Co Ltd is an independent cast manufacturer.
MGE spring wheat futures were lower at the midsession as the market retraced Monday's gains, traders said.
"There's no reason why we were up as high as we got yesterday, so we're seeing a slight retracement of yesterday's gains. Plus the trade's realized that the talk of a frost (in Canada next week) was a crock," a MGE floor source said.
Traders said Monday's crop progress report, which showed a slight decline in spring wheat condition, was having a muted effect on values.
By 1025 CDT, MGE spring wheat was 1/2 to three cents per bushel lower, with Sept down 1-1/2 cents at $4.63-1/2 a bushel.
Traders said volumes were light to moderate. Atwood Peavey was reported to have bull-spread 1.5 million Sept/Dec bushels.
Thailand's opposition parties submitted a no-confidence motion on Tuesday against beleaguered Prime Minister Banharn Silpa-archa, accusing him of damaging the country through mismanagement and inefficiency.
"Prime Minister Banharn is inefficient and shows a lack of leadership... ," the opposition said in the motion submitted to the president of parliament.
"He has abused his duty and turned a blind eye to rampant corruption... all of which has caused damage to the country... "
Debate on the motion will begin on September 11, an opposition member of parliament (MP) told Reuters.
The opposition has said it was confident there was enough strong evidence to bring down Banharn's 13-month old coalition, which has been rocked by the withdrawal of one of its member parties.
"The public will be shocked with the evidence we have in hand," Democrat parliamentarian Chamni Sakdiseth told reporters after the motion was put forward.
Banharn has denied allegations of mismanagement and impropriety, and said he was ready to face the accusations in parliament and had no plans to dissolve the house.
There had been speculation he might try to escape the grilling by dissolving parliament or resigning before the debate.
"You can just forget about me resigning or dissolving parliament," Banharn said on Monday. He was not immediately available for comment on Tuesday after the no-confidence motion was submitted.
Questions have been raised about the future of Banharn's government since last week when the third largest member, the Palang Dharma party, pulled out of the coalition.
Although the pullout left the six-party coalition with a majority in parliament, factional rivalry within Banharn's own Chart Thai party and threats of more partners leaving the alliance have raised doubts about its survival.
Palang Dharma resigned last week after a row in cabinet over controversial banking licences. The remaining six parties vowed to stick together at least until the 1996/97 fiscal budget bill was passed.
The debate on the budget bill, which began last Wednesday and is expected to be boted on later on Tuesday, was still going on as the censure motion was put forward.
The record budget of 984 billion baht ($39.36 billion) is expected to easily win parliamentary approval. Palang Dharma said it would support the bill to ensure its passage.
In the censure debate, the opposition has said it will not only grill Banharn over alleged mismanagement and corruption, but also plans to attack him over his handling of the economy.
Political analysts said on Tuesday that Banharn has various options, making it difficult to predict the course of events in coming weeks.
"Banharn may make a major change to his coalition by resigning and forming a new coalition," said Sukhum Naulsakul, a politics lecturer at Ramkhamhang University.
"He could bring more parties in to his coalition to boost his numbers to ensure he passes the censure vote," he said.
NOTE - Totoku Electric Co Ltd makes electronic machinery and parts.
A U.S. appeals court Tuesday upheld the dismissal of a suit against the Treasury Department for authorizing a federal tax credit for use of ethyl tertiary butyl ether, a fuel additive derived from ethanol.
The Friends of the Earth, the Florida Audubon Society and the Florida Wildlife Federation sued, saying the tax credit would damage the environment by increasing production of corn, sugar cane and sugar beets. But a district court dismissed the suit, saying the plaintiffs had not shown that they would suffer any injury. The U.S. Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia affirmed the lower court ruling.
Belgian police are still searching for two teenage girls missing in the country's child sex scandal and remain hopeful but have not yet found them, Public Prosecutor Michel Bourlet said on Tuesday.
Convicted child rapist Marc Dutroux has admitted kidnapping Marchal and Lambrecks in the port of Ostend last August. But their fate is a mystery.
Belgian investigators opened communications via Interpol with a number of countries on Tuesday as Belgian media speculated that the two girls had been found in the Czech Republic.
But Bourlet firmly squashed that rumour on Tuesday, and Interpol in Prague said there was no trace of the missing girls on Czech soil.
The investigation is part of Belgium's child sex scandal. Dutroux led police on Saturday to the bodies of eight-year-olds Julie Lejeune and Melissa Russo after 14-year-old Laetitia Delhez and 12-year-old Sabine Dardenne were rescued from a makeshift dungeon in a house he owns in Charleroi.
A group led by D.E. Shaw Investments L.P. said in a U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission filing Tuesday that it held a 19.4 percent stake in Bowater Inc, or 949,300 depositary shares.
The group disclosed its Bowater holdings in a 13G filing.
Depositary shares each represent a one-fourth interest in a share of preferred redeemable increased dividend equity securities, seven percent PRIDES, series convertible preferred stock, par value $1 per share.
Filings under 13G are usually made by institutions and large investors with "passive" investment objectives in a company. In contrast with 13D filings, those reports do not list the latest transactions.
Research and development will become increasingly important to the sugar industry because more than 70 percent of growers had no spare land to bring into production, Harry Bonanno, chairman of the grower organisation CANEGROWERS, told the Sugar 2000 symposium on Tuesday.
Growers would rely increasingly on vertical expansion, getting greater productivity from existing land, he said.
The sugar industry needed a coordinated, cost-effective approach to funding, priorities and management and greater accountability by research organisations to ensure its investment reflected the industry's needs, he said.
Continued improvement in productivity and efficiency was vital if the Australian industry was to maintain its competitive edge in an increrasingly tough world market, Bonanno said.
Caterpillar Inc was awarded an Army contract option valued at $8.7 million to produce a high-speed, rubber-tracked bulldozer, the U.S. Army Tank-automotive and Armaments Command said Tuesday.
Caterpillar will produce 15 of the bulldozers and deliver them beginning in May 1997 for testing, the Command said in a release.
The contract is a production option to a 1995 research and development contract. It is the first of several options, the Command said, and the total of all options would be $56.6 million over the next four years.
Philippine gross national product (GNP) growth in the second quarter of 1996 is likely to exceed the 6.24 percent registered in the first quarter, a senior government official said on Tuesday.
Canlas, who declined to give figures, said second quarter growth was normally lower than the first quarter due to seasonal fluctuations in the agriculture sector.
He added that the improvement in agriculture this year would more than offset the impact of the export sector, which had not been performing as well as expected.
NEDA is expected to release the second quarter growth figures around the end of August.
The Philippine government says it expects full-year GNP growth of 6.5 to 7.5 percent against 5.7 percent in 1995.
Canlas is in the southern Philippine city of Davao attending a meeting of senior officials of the Asia-Pacific Economic Cooperation forum.
-Manila newsroom 632 8418938 Fax 8176267.
Trade on the European Options Exchange on Tuesday was dominated by the index itself as players bought call spreads and sold put spreads, betting on a rise in the AEX index.
September puts with a strike of 520 and 540 and October calls at 580 were among the most heavily traded.
In a quiet market, ING contracts took almost eight percent of total trade by early afternoon with calls outweighing puts by almost six to one. But fewer contracts changed hands than in recent days.
"The positions in ING are already there. People are just waiting for the results now," one trader said. ING's first half net is due on Thursday.
By 1310 GMT ING shares were trading up 0.20 guilders at 55.00.
The Israeli government will consider selling shares in state-owned banks through international public offerings, a government source said.
Last week a group of investors led by Claridge, the Israeli investment vehicle of Canadian businessman Charles Bronfman, told the government it was dropping its bid for a controlling stake in Bank Hapoalim. The group was the main bidder for a stake in Israel's largest bank.
Meir Jacobson, managing director of the government's M.I. Holdings, in charge of privatising Israel's banks, said he recently submitted a proposal to the government for public offerings of the banks on U.S. and European stock markets.
Jacobson specified that the proposal refers to all the banks that have to be privatised and not specifically to Hapoalim.
He said a similar proposal had been raised previously, but was put on hold while discussions were going on with private investors interested in purchasing stakes in the banks.
The other group interested in purchasing control of Bank Hapoalim, led by Israeli businessman Eliezer Fishman, has yet to receive approval from the central Bank of Israel to bid for Hapoalim. The group includes Bear Stearns.
The government also intends to privatise its other banks including Leumi, Israel's second biggest bank. Leumi's privatisation has been stalled since last year when the only bidder for a controlling stake, Edmond Safra of Republic Bank, withdrew his bid.
The two main unions representing German retail workers split apart on Tuesday. The HBV union pulled out of talks in a four-month old pay dispute while the DAG opted to continue negotiations.
The unions have been jointly negotiating a wage and work hours deal for the 450,000 retail workers in the state of North Rhine-Westphalia, one of several regional deals being hammered out in advance of November's liberalisation of shop hours.
However the service sector union HBV pulled out of the talks on Tuesday after employers refused to accept its unexpected demand for extra compensation for night work.
Until now, unions have pressed for broad adoption of a deal struck in Rhineland-Palatinate which called for workers to get a 1.85 percent wage rise plus 20 percent extra time in lieu per hour worked after 6:30 p.m. weekdays and 2:00 p.m. Saturdays.
The white collar DAG, which immediately distanced itself from the HBV's demands, said it was confident it could reach an agreement with shopowners on the Rhineland-Palatinate model and would continue talks.
Early Tuesday evening, employers and unions said the talks were progressing well.
The HBV, however, is insisting that shopowners pay all workers a 55 percent bonus time in lieu for time worked between 7:30 and 8:00 p.m. The retail industry currently pays such bonuses only to truck drivers and store-room workers.
HBV negotiator Gerhard Keuchel said his union would try over the coming days to find fresh ground for new talks, but said the 55 percent bonus was essential.
Meanwhile the HDE retail industry association pleaded for a swift end to the deadlock on the talks, which has caused four months of sporadic strike action affecting shops and wholesalers throughout Germany.
"This cannot drag on until the start of November," HDE wages expert Guenther Wassmann told German radio.
So far, employers, hit by weak consumer spending, have baulked at accepting the Rhineland-Palatinate deal and took particular issue with the 20 percent allowance demand.
However in Bavaria, DAG officials said they were confident of a positive outcome from the tenth round of their wage negotiations, which begins on Wednesday.
The DAG suspended token strikes ahead of the talks and said it planned to suggest a compromise on the controversial 20 percent allowance.
However it warned that the token strikes would resume if employers declined the offer.
In Berlin, wage talks resumed on Tuesday morning for the region's 87,500 retail workers. Union representatives said they planned to seek an overall pay rise of five percent, to be applicable in east German states as well, in addition to the shop hours deal.
The price of sugar in China has risen as the government implements its plan to reserve sugar, the Xinhua news agency said on Tuesday.
The price of sugar on the Beijing market has risen to 4,150 yuan ($500) per tonne and the price of sugar in Hangzhou has risen to 3,930 yuan per tonne, Xinhua quoted the Guangxi Sugar Trade Information Centre as saying.
Sugar delivered at the railway station in Nanning, capital of southern Guangxi province, was going for 3,760 to 3,780 yuan per tonne, the agency said.
Xinhua did not say what the previous levels had been, but said the increases were between 30 and 60 yuan per tonne.
China this year for the first time ordered sugar mills in major production areas to reserve 300,000 tonnes of sugar at 4,000 yuan per tonne to boost slumping prices.
The Guangxi region had more than 600,000 tonnes of sugar in stock while many sugar factories had no sugar to sell, Xinhua said. It gave no further details.
Merrill Lynch & Co said it won $24 million of Frt Mill School District No. 4, S.C., general obligation bonds, Series 1996, with a net interest ccost of 5.312 percent.
Lloyd's of London said a U.S. federal court had granted Lloyd's motion to dismiss a lawsuit brought against it by four Lloyd's Names -- J. David Tufts III, James D. Tufts II, Albert B. Crutcher and Linda Tufts Hebbler.
In a statement late on Monday, Lloyd's said Judge John F. Keenan of the United States District Court in the Southern District of New York ruled that the plaintiff's evidence "fails to support their claim."
The court focused on the choice clauses included in the General Undertaking. Keenan followed precedents set in three other lawsuits against Lloyd's by plaintiffs who brought evidence seeking to prove that Lloyd's, and certain parties and entities affiliated with it, knew the extent of the liabilities that Names faced by participating in some syndicates.
Peter Lane, Managing Director of Lloyd's North America, said: "We are pleased by this decision. Names entered into their commitments under U.K. law and we are pleased that U.S. courts continue to recognise this."
- STATOIL raised its motor fuel price; other fuel companies do not rule out price rises in the near future.
- The first Estonian produced mortar-bomb launcher was demonstrated to Defence Minister Andrus Oovel last Friday; the production of shells is also planned.
- The security police deny leading a campaign against Russian activist Pyotr Rozhok or controlling a Russian-language daily in Estonia.
- Former defence forces officer Juri Kadak accuses political lobbies of having engineered the removal of General Aleksander Einseln from his post as defence forces chief and covering up an arms smuggling scandal.
- Estonia and China plan to conclude an agreement on avoiding double taxation, it was announced during Premier Tiit Vaehi's meeting with Chinese minister of state Li Tieying.
- Police are investigating the actions of a sentry who shot and killed a conscript who was under arrest.
- President Lennart Meri is ready to meet the Development Party, which demanded that a meeting is needed to learn about his position concerning the presidential elections.
- Police chief Ain Seppik promised to dismiss two police officers, who fired their pistol in a public place in Saaremaa and endangered passers-by.
- The daily published a interview with Centre party leader Edgar Savisaar, who claims that he was the victim of a plot by powerful business and political circles when he was dismissed last year.
- The rotation of Estonian ambassadors may begin soon after written agreements have been received.
- Vaehi left for a three-day visit to Finland on Tuesday; he is to meet his Finnish counterpart Paavo Lipponen.
- The quarrel concerning the transition of government communications to the privately-owned Eesti Telefon has lasted several months but no solution is expected.
- Deputy state prosecutor Alar Kirs claims that the article on corruption in the penal code is so inefficient as to make the pressing of charges virtually impossible.
Hog prices fell Tuesday after government slaughter figures showed supplies were increasing, while cocoa futures rose on anticipation of smaller crops overseas.
Forecasts for shrinking deliverable supplies pulled coffee prices up. Crude oil fell after rising on Monday. Gold edged higher. The Commodity Research Bureau's index of 17 futures contracts closed down 1.32 at 250.65 points.
At the Chicago Mercantile Exchange, August hog and pork belly futures finished down their respective daily limits on pressure from increased hog slaughter and weakness in the cash market.
"The fact that we are seeing a few more hogs show up has people worried about the supply side but more important than this it gives the packers a little more freedom to improve their margins," said Doug Harper, Brock Associates Inc. senior livestock analyst.
High hog prices have pinched profits at meat-packing companies and now that hog supplies are increasing these companies will likely be quick to lower bids.
The Agriculture Department reported Tuesday's slaughter at 348,000 head vs. 343,000 a week ago. Also, on a weekly basis, slaughter is nearing last year's higher levels.
The CME August hog contract closed down the 1.50-cent-per-pound daily limit at 60.025 cents per pound.
Pork bellies also closed sharply lower because more hogs translates to more pork and lower pork prices. CME August pork bellies closed down the 2-cent limit at 91.375 cents per pound.
Cocoa futures at New York's Coffee, Sugar and Cocoa Exchange ended sharply higher on speculative buying, but the market has been buoyed by news of smaller overseas crops.
One analyst said until updated Ivory Coast crop estimates emerged near the end of August, the December contract was likely to range between $1,400 and $1,500.
December cocoa settled up $21 to $1,430 per metric ton.
"The smaller Ivorian crop is well anticipated," the analyst said. "There are other countries having problems, such as ... Ghana."
Preliminary forecasts, which pegged the 1996/97 Ivory Coast crop around 800,000 to 900,000 metric tons, have been largely factored into the market, he said, and barring sharp revisions, news from other cocoa producing countries could become the focus.
Coffee prices ended higher after a burst of late-session chart-based buying.
December coffee settled at 115.05 cents per pound Tuesday, up 1.75 on the day and just above the widely-watched 115 cents mark. Traders said the break through that resistance level could inspire some additional chart-driven buying Wednesday.
On the New York Mercantile Exchange, crude oil and refined products futures closed lower on profit-taking.
September unleaded gasoline closed down 1.26 cents a gallon to 64.01 cents, and September heating fell 0.91 cent a gallon to 61.67 cents.
September crude oil fell 40 cents to $22.86 a barrel.
September gold added 50 cents to close at $388.60 an ounce at New York's Commodity Exchange.
South Africa is budgeting according to its means, with tighter control on rollovers and policy-making increasingly restricted by affordability, Deputy Minister of Finance Gill Marcus said on Tuesday.
Marcus, former chairwoman of parliament's influential finance committee, outlined several mechanisms introduced since the transition to democracy in 1994 to control expenditure and to ensure efficient use of state funds.
"The Budget Council as well as the national Budget Committee, which has just completed two weeks of presentations, have agreed to and are preparing budgets in accordance with the four percent deficit target," she said.
Earlier on Tuesday, Finance Minister Trevor Manuel told a news conference the government was on track to meet both its 5.1 percent deficit target for fiscal 1996/97 and its four percent target for fiscal 1997/98.
Marcus said the government was trying to extend its budget horizon from one year at present to at least three years, adding: "This approach will also enable departments and provinces to plan ahead with confidence."
She cautioned planning ministries to ensure that their long-term strategies were mapped in accordance with revenue projections in the government's macro-economic framework published in June.
"The constitution has created various bodies, commissions and obligations, all of which require additional expenditure. We urgently recommend that this be costed and an approach taken that fits with what we can afford," she said.
She urged that policy white papers should be "accompanied by actuarial evaluation of the expenditure required".
"Spending allocations should be outlined for a three to five-year horizon, enabling multi-year planning to achieve objectives. This needs to be done so as to reflect objectives, time frames, costs and what is actually going to be delivered in return for the resources allocated," she said.
Marcus confirmed a report earlier this week that the projected rollover of budgeted funds from fiscal 1995/96 to the current financial year could total 10.5 billion rand.
"This requires urgent attention. It clearly indicates that the question is not simply one of allocating more resources, but paying attention to capacity, reprioritisation, efficiency and the effectiveness of spending within all departments and provincs.
"Ongoing discussions are taking place with the departments reflecting large rollovers, as to both the cause and the solutions," Marcus said.
The Communications Ministry has begun efforts to revamp the evaluation committee and activate internal vigilance in the Department of Telecommunications (DoT). The Communications Minister has passed orders to this effect. This is to check corruption and ensure transparency in the telecommunication tendering process involving millions of rupees. Meanwhile, several DoT officials were placed under suspension including Runu Ghosh, deputy director (finance), four sub-divisional officers and a general manager of the Mahanagar Telephone Nigam Ltd.
The Indian High Commission in London has failed to ascertain the whereabouts of former Union Communications Minister Sukh Ram. Reports said the former Minister was not in London as was earlier suggested by the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI). Sukh Ram was there last week before his houses were raided in Delhi and Mandi (Himachal Pradesh) which led to the recovery of 36.6 million rupees in cash. Various political parties wondered why the CBI had not contacted the former minister even days after its raid on his houses.
The Suresh Mehta Gujarat government was rattled by the decision of breakaway factions of the ruling Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) to launch a new party. Expelled BJP rebel leader Shakarsinh Vaghela was holding a rally in the state's capital city to launch his new party. The BJP, smarting under pressure, ruled out any threat whatsoever to the Suresh Mehta Ministry. The party said it was ready to sacrifice its government in the interest of party discipline. Meanwhile the state's Industry Minister Dilip Parikh was dropped and expelled from the party.
The recast Bombay Stock Exchange 30-share sensitive index (sensex) crashed on its debut. Selling pressure saw the recast sensex dip 86.33 points from the opening level of 3367.82 points. Panic selling by foreign investors and domestic traders was responsible for the crash, said brokers. On the National Stock Exchange (NSE) too, the prices of pivotals suffered a setback. The NSE-50 scrip index lost 26 points over the previous close of 1002.
The Finance Ministry has decided to overhaul the competitive bidding norms for multilaterally aided project. The Ministry is preparing a standard National Competitive Bidding Document for domestic component of such projects. This document would be the first of its kind to cover the indigenous developmental aspect of an internationally aided project. The foreign segments of these projects would be covered under a revamped International Competitive Bidding Document. Sources said the revised documents would provide for better transparency and simplified norms.
UK-based promoter-cum-principal shareholder of ITC Ltd, B.A.T, wants the Indian company's board to be restructured. B.A.T has begun talks with the Industrial Development Bank of India and other major institutional share-holders in ITC. The British company is also seeking to raise its stake in ITC to 40 percent with the help of financial institutions (FIs). Currently, B.A.T's stake in ITC stands at 32 percent. The FIs are yet to respond to B.A.T's move.
Tata Sons may shell out over 900 million rupees for buying out the 40 percent equity stake of US-based Unisys Corp in Tata Unisys Ltd joint venture. Tata Sons is learnt to be looking for a new foreign partner to offload this equity at a later stage. Tata Sons was vying for US software giant Microsoft Corp for the purpose, said sources.
The Civil Aviation Ministry has spiked plans for foreign equity participation in the aviation sector. The move has not just grounded the controversial Tata-Singapore Airlines proposal but also ruled out fresh joint ventures in the aviation sector. While the firming up of the government stand on the issue would provide some protection to domestic carriers, the ministry has proposed to make Air-India cost-competitive and more efficient.
State Bank of India (SBI) will recover as profit more than two billion rupees which had been written off as depreciation in its investment in government securities during fiscal 1995/96 (April-March). The SBI will benefit from the decision of the Reserve Bank of India to allow public sector banks to write back as profits, in the current year, the excess depreciation on government securities provided in fiscal 1995/96. Several banks which have had heavy securities portfolio planned to raise their profits this year through such a reverse entry, sources said.
Prime Minister H.D. Deve Gowda criticised the states for not implementing the ongoing economic reforms wholeheartedly. Addressing the first meeting of the reconstituted Planning Commission, Deve Gowda also rejected the blueprint of the Ninth Plan strategy paper based on the reports of the working groups and committees. The Prime Minister said states should fully shoulder their constitutional responsibilities in important sectors such as industrial infrastructure, power development, agriculture and allied services, irrigation, roads, and social sectors.
Philips, Europe's largest electronics major, is looking at India as one of the locations where it could shift a chunk of its audio and video business from Europe. The move is likely to be a part of Philips' worldwide restructuring exercise after it incurred heavy losses in the first quarter of the current year. Sources said in the next four years, the company would invest $400 million to expand capacities and modernise its Indian facilities.
The nominal value of gold reserves dropped 7.3 billion rupees between March 29, 1996 and August 19, 1996 due to steady fall of gold prices in the London market. India's gold reserves fell from 164.63 billion rupees ($4,659 million) on March 29 to 157,33 billion rupees ($4,410 million) on August 9. Sources said this might have an adverse impact on the exchange fluctuation reserve and, consequently, the fiscal deficit.
The Department of Public Enterprises (DPE) has identified eight core sectors in which public sector units (PSUs) would remain under government control. They are telecommunication, power, petroleum, fertilisers, coal, ports, steel and shipping. DPE has also favoured the continuation of public sector monopoly in strategically important areas such as nuclear energy, defence, space and oceanography. The categorisation of the PSUs into core, non-core, essential, non-essential sectors is part of the government's move to revitalise the PSUs.
The overall industrial growth was estimated at 5.1 percent during the period of April-June this year. On the other hand, the production performance of 24 industries, including core industries, for June this year indicates an overall growth rate of 4.5 percent, the Industry Ministry sources said. While six infrastructure industries such as coal, crude oil, cement, saleable steel, electricity, petroleum refinery products together registered a 4.7 percent growth in April-June 1996, it was only 0.5 percent in June, sources said.
The Union government would raise 20 billion rupees through the sale of 10-year, 13.85 percent government stock on August 26. The Reserve Bank of India said interest on the stock would be paid half-yearly on February 26 and August 26 and the stock would be repaid at par on august 26, 2006. The stock would be eligible for ready forward facility, sources said.
Swiss retail group Jelmoli Holding AG said sales for the the first six months of 1996 fell 2.8 percent on a comparable basis from the year before.
But Jelmoli said acquisitions by unit Imholz Travel meant actual sales rose 4.8 percent to 901.0 million Swiss francs.
"Due to ongoing weakness of the retail consumer market, business during the second half of 1996 is expected to remain difficult," Jelmoli said in an interim report.
Jelmoli said the decline in adjusted sales was due mainly to general restraint in consumer spending.
Dayton Hudson Corp. said Tuesday its earnings almost quadrupled in the second quarter, aided by cost cuts and profits from its Target discount unit, while speciality retailers Limited Inc. and AnnTaylor Stores Corp. posted more modest improvements.
Dayton Hudson, the nation's fourth-largest retailer, said earnings jumped to $101 million, or 42 cents a share, from $28 million, or 11 cents a share, a year earlier. Revenues rose 10 percent to $5.75 billion.
"Our second-quarter results reflect exceptional profit performance at Target and a significant turnaround in profitability at Mervyn's," said Bob Ulrich, chairman and chief executive of Minneapolis-based Dayton Hudson.
Target, the company's discount store chain, posted profits of $240 million for the quarter, up 66 percent, which exceeded analysts' expectations. The gain was fuelled by expense cuts, fatter price mark-ups and robust sales.
"It's very clear Target is the main engine in terms of top-line sales and bottomline growth" at Dayton Hudson, said Saul Yaari of Piper Jaffray Inc.
Target's comparable-store sales, or sales at stores open a year, rose 7 percent, outpacing larger rivals Wal-Mart Stores Inc. and Kmart Corp., Yaari said.
Sales at Dayton Hudson's troubled Mervyn's unit, a chain of 299 department stores that competes with J.C. Penney Stores and Sears, declined, but profits climbed.
Dayton Hudson has vowed to turn around Mervyn's earnings or to consider restructuring the division, which many analysts interpreted to mean it might sell the business.
So far this year, the company has followed through on its promise. Mervyn's profits jumped to $54 million in the second quarter from $3 million although comparable-store sales fell 5 percent.
Results did not improve at the company's third division, which includes regional department store chains Marshall Field's, Dayton's and Hudson's. Profits at the unit fell about 58 percent to $10 million.
Other retailers, meanwhile, reported improved profits despite sluggish sales.
New York-based AnnTaylor rebounded to a profit of $627,000, or 3 cents a share, in the quarter from a loss of $3.8 million, or 16 cents a share, a year earlier.
Total sales rose 2.3 percent to $187.9 million, but comparable-store sales fell 8.7 percent.
Like other retailers, AnnTaylor ordered less summer merchandise this year to avoid big end-of-the-season sales. But the lack of clearance sales made it tough to attract customers and sales suffered, analysts said.
Limited, the Columbus, Ohio,-based speciality chain, said its profits rose to $33.2 million, or 12 cents a share, from $28.7 million, or 10 cents a share, a year ago.
The retailer's lingerie and toiletries division, Intimate Brands Inc., recorded a 23-percent increase in earnings of $48.1 million, or 19 cents a share. Limited sold 17 percent of Intimate Brands to the public last year.
Business at Limited's women's apparel chains, including Express, Limited and Lerner store chains, was disappointing, Limited said.
"It seems whenever they get things rolling at one division, things get tough at another," said Anita Gallitano of Alex. Brown & Sons Inc.
At Dayton Hudson, results at Mervyn's improved for the second consecutive quarter.
Since last year's results were depressed by massive clearance sales, it has been somewhat easy for Mervyn's to top year-ago profits, analysts said. The bigger challenge will come next year, when Mervyn's will have fewer options for cutting costs and will have to rely on sales growth to boost profits.
Mervyn's weak performance has been a thorn in Dayton Hudson's side for three years. Pressure mounted this spring on Chief Executive Ulrich to fix the division's woes after the company rejected a bid from J.C. Penney to acquire Dayton Hudson for about $6.8 billion.
While Mervyn's earnings are expected to improve even more in the second half of the year, the division is not out of the woods yet, analysts said.
"I don't think the pressure is off at all," said Richard Church of Smith Barney. "They're getting some good expense savings, but they're not seeing the strategy translate to improved earnings at Mervyn's and the department stores."
Expectations of a rescheduling deal between the London Club of commercial bank creditors and two banks of former Soviet-bloc trade group Comecon could drive prices of the banks' debt higher, Salomon Brothers said.
It said in a report that a rescheduling agreement with the International Investment bank (IIB) and International Bank for Economic Co-operation (IBEC) could follow soon after a London Club deal with Russia.
The London Club agreement with Russia is likely to be formally completed by the end of this year.
Prices of the two banks' debt are likely to rise in the sovereign debt market as attention focuses on a possible deal, Salomon's report said.
The IIB has already achieved agreement in principle with its London Club creditors, and heads of terms could be announced before the bank's next council meeting in Vietnam in October, with completion in first-quarter 1997, it said.
The IBEC has negotiated less actively with its creditors but could use elements of the IIB agreement as a basis for its own London Club negotiations, Salomon said.
The two Moscow banks are the last surviving institutions of Comecon, which united the Soviet Union, Eastern Europe and three developing country Soviet satellites until 1989.
Trading in the unrestructured defaulted loans of the two banks has been rare and mainly linked to debt buyback activity through which indebted shareholding countries have sought to settle their obligations to Comecon multilaterals, it said.
"However, as the contours of a London Club deal with IIB begin to emerge, interest in the two banks is rising," it said.
"As a result of this interest and our expectation of further progress in talks with external creditors, we anticipate further price appreciation, primarily of IBEC debt," it said.
IIB debt has already strengthened in anticipation of an early settlement following Russia's own deal. It is currently trading around 39, it said in the August-dated report, and is close to fair value on the basis of the deal being discussed.
Under current proposals, IIB would retain 25 percent of repayments. If a lower percentage is agreed upon, the value of the debt would be significantly higher, Salomon said.
IBEC's outstanding debt to external creditors is substantially below what it is owed by shareholders, and IBEC debt is trading at a deeper discount to Russian Vnesh loans than IIB debt is.
If agreement is reached with IBEC on the lines of the IIB deal, IBEC paper would be undervalued, as it should at least be in the same range as IIB debt, Salomon said.
The two banks sought a standstill agreement from creditors in 1993 while Russia, their biggest shareholder, was negotiating its own rescheduling. At that time IIB owed external creditors $1.78 billion and IBEC $662 million.
"With the completion of Russia's London Club deal expected by December, we expect $1.6 billion of outstanding IIB debt and $554 million of outstanding IBEC to trade in sympathy with Vnesh, with IBEC strengthening relative to IIB," Salomon said.
The two banks, which as international organisations have diplomatic status, intend to seek repayment from their debtor countries, normalise relations with external creditors and resume operations, it said. Shareholders including the biggest, Russia, want the banks to resume normal operations, it said.
The main feature of the agreement IIB hopes to complete with the London Club by 1997 will be a multi-tranche Special-Purpose Vehicle through which repayments of debts from the bank's own debtor member countries will pass to the bank's creditors, Salomon said.
Total sterling lending by major British banking groups rose a seasonally adjusted 2.677 billion stg in July, the British Bankers' Association said on Tuesday.
Lending was well down on June, when aggregate lending was 3.34 billion stg, and the six-monthly average of 3.30 billion.
But consumer credit rose strongly by 539 million stg in July, the BBA said, compared with June's 226 million rise and a six-monthly average of 362 million stg.
"Further strong growth in consumer credit was a feature of the...figures for July," said BBA director-general Tim Sweeney. "With the seasonally adjusted increase of 539 million very close to the record April figure, this may point to a strengthening of consumer spending."
Credit cards accounted for 217 million stg of July's increase in consumer credit.
"Substantial demand for funds by the financial sector was the other factor responsible for the growth in the banks' lending in July," Sweeney said. "Overall, industrial and commercial companies repaid bank finance over the month."
Northern Ireland recalled three players to their squad to face the Ukraine in a World Cup qualifier in Belfast on August 31.
Neil Lennon of premier league Leicester, Michael O'Neill of Coventry and French-based striker Phil Gray are back in the 18-man party after missing the 1-1 home draw against Germany in a friendly in May.
There was no place in the squad for experienced internationals Steve Morrow of Arsenal and Alan McDonald of Queens Park Rangers.
Toronto stocks rallied to close higher on Tuesday, surging ahead on strength in the resource sectors.
"Canadian gold stocks led Canadian stock prices higher," said Richardson Greenshields analyst Linda Lehman in a market report. The Toronto Stock Exchange's key 300 Composite Index jumped 33.32 points to reach 5150.89 points.
So far in August the key index has climbed out of its July lows to reach heights it has not hit since early June.
"We're not far from our highs," said P and C Holdings president Ron Meisels. Toronto's key index hit its all-time high of 5248 points on May 28, 1986.
At this point in the bullish economic cycle, market players are investing in resource stocks, Meisels said.
Markets are also now debating whether the Bank of Canada will ease short-term interest rates since the U.S. Federal Open Market Committee did not raise rates at its meeting today, analysts have said.
Canada's central bank can risk the rate cut without excessively widening bond spreads between the two nations.
Golds led all of Toronto's 14 sub-indices higher, gaining 1.38 percent. They were followed by transportation issues, base metals and media issues.
Advancing stocks beat out declining ones 507 to 361, while 275 traded unchanged.
* Heavyweight Barrick Gold Corp jumped 0.35 to 37.90 in brisk trading while Black Swan Gold Mines Ltd was Toronto's most active stock in turnover of 2.7 million shares. The small prospector slipped 0.06 to 1.44 after recent strength as investors await drill results.
Rapidly changing weather patterns now suggest warm weather will remain in the U.S. Midwest through next week, rather than be displaced by a cold system as indicated Monday, meteorologists said.
"The extended forecast changed from cold weather to continued mild," said Joel Burgio, Weather Services Corp meteorologist. "These long-range charts have a way of flip-flopping."
Currently, scattered showers are forecast for this week, but most amounts will be 0.50 inch or less. A few areas may receive an inch or more along the Mississippi Valley.
Tropical Storm Dolly in the Gulf of Mexico should evolve into a hurricane and push rain into the southern Midwest late Friday, said Fred Gesser, Weather Express Inc meteorologist.
For next week, Weather Services Burgio said the latest maps suggest normal to above normal temperatures for the Midwest.
Bonds were nudging higher but liquidity was very thin on a day when the Treasury rejected all bids at its five-year bond sale.
Traders said the market was going to remain on hold until after the Federal Open Market Committee (FOMC) meeting later on Tuesday.
"There is no desire to do anything in either futures or cash," said one trader.
Bidded yields had been expected to be higher than the previous sale on July 25 because of uncertainty over the FOMC and the fact that end-users were out of the market.
They said demand at the auction only totalled 36 billion for the 20 billion escudos of paper on offer.
The escudo was also calm.
-- Jefferies & Co said Winslow also started coverage of Guidant Corp with accumulate and Biomet Inc with hold.
The Australian dollar and bonds weakened in immediate response to the 1996/97 Federal budget handed down by Treasurer Peter Costello.
The dollar fell to US$0.7860/65 from a pre-budget US$0.7883/88, while the September 10-year bond futures contract eased to 92.030 from 92.085.
Costello announced an underlying budget deficit of A$5.65 billion for 1996/97 and a headline surplus of A$474 million.
Also released was June quarter GDP which came in at up 0.1 percent for year-on-year growth of 4.5 percent.
Median forecasts had centred on a flat quarterly outcome for an annual 3.8 percent growth rate.
-- Caspian Securities said analyst Joanne Smith initiated coverage Telefonica de Espana SA with a buy rating.
-- said company "has significantly outperformed over the past 12 months, yet remains very attractively valued, with excellent future growth prospects."
-- estimates earnings growth of 15 percent in 1996 and 32 percent in 1997.
-- set "conservative" 12-month price target of US$71 per ADR. The ADRS rose 1/8 to 53-7/8.
These are the leading stories in the Egyptian press on Tuesday. Reuters has not verified these stories and does not vouch for their accuracy.
- Government to promote internationally 100 projects worth 75 billion pounds; work in 20 of the projects will begin this year. Prime Minister Kamal Ganzouri says government is working on removing obstacles to investment.
- Private sector will contribute in establishing tourism and development area to cost 3.65 billion pounds between Balteem and Hamasa.
- Social Fund will earmark $800 million for projects during the next stage; projects to concentrate on development and creating job opportunities in southern Egypt.
- Mubarak calls Yemeni president to discuss developments in the Red Sea and Arab and regional affairs.
- Mubarak congratulates Egyptian team to disabled olympics.
- Extremism rife in Israel -- Netanyahu to review new project on settlements in West Bank. Israeli government boycotts Oslo anniversary celebrations; Peres may meet Arafat to examine peace process.
- 10 percent of private education income to boost plan to introduce technology to education field.
- Tough security measures in place to track down suspects in armed robbery of Sohag gold shops.
- Arafat threatens to take peace process to international arbitration; Israel drags feet over Hebron pullout. Peres says "Lebanon First" is laughable.
- 4.2 billion pounds turnover on stock market during past seven months.
1997 budget take effect, a big trade union said on Tuesday.
said in a statement.
The table stopped at 20,000 markka per month.
-- Lehman Brothers said it initiated coverage of Intercardia Inc with a buy rating and a 12-month price target of $31.
-- The stock was trading up 1-1/2 at 22-3/4 on Tuesday afternoon.
by lead manager Paribas Luxembourg.
About 18 percent of Polish taxpayers took advantage of liberal tax rules and made tax deductible donations which cut budget revenues by 890 million zlotys, Prime Minister Wlodzimierz Cimoszewicz said.
"About 18 percent of taxpayers took advantage of the tax reliefs...which reduced budget revenues by 890 million zlotys," Cimoszewicz told reporters before a cabinet meeting.
The income tax law provision, which allowed taxpayers to write off donations made not only to institutions but also to close relatives and friends, has been criticised for leaving too much room for abuse.
But Cimoszewicz said tax inspectors found irregularities only in about 20 percent of monitored tax returns filed by those who claimed deductions.
The BSA said other housing market indicators look promising for future growth in the market.
"Transactions have been increasing since April and house prices have also been rising, encouraging more sellers into the market," said BSA deputy director general Ron Armstrong.
"However, the severe downturn in the market remains recent history, meaning borrowers are likely to remain careful," he added. As a result, the recovery in the housing market will remain moderate and slower than some commentators have suggested.
Colston resigned as a Labor party senator to complete his present term, which ends in 1999, as an independent in the Senate.
Labor opposition Senate leader John Faulkner said he was disappointed Colston had not made his loyalties to the Labor party clear.
"He was endorsed as a labor party senator ... and as far as I'm concerned he has a primary loyalty to the Australian Labor Party," Faulkner said.
But Colston had indicated to a senior Labor member earlier on Tuesday that he would support the Labor party on the key policy issues in parliament, Faulkner said.
Queensland Labor party state secretary Mike Kaiser said in a statement on Tuesday that he understood Colston had resigned because the federal Labor party had chosen someone else for the position of Deputy President of the Senate.
In a fax to Kaiser, Colston said he had resigned because of significant differences between himself and other members of the federal Labor party.
Colston's resignation from the Labor party means he is no longer bound by party policy and can decide his own position on legislation.
The Labor opposition and minor parties hold the balance of power in the Senate and have pledged to block some of the new Liberal-National government's reforms, including the partial privatisation of Telecommunications carrier Telstra Corp.
-- Lehman Brothers said it initiated coverage of COR Therapeutics Inc with an outperform rating and set a $14 price target for the stock.
-- Further details were not available.
-- The shares were up 17/64 at 9-7/8.
Okabena Partnership K, a Minnesota general partnership said on Tuesday it holds a 7.13 percent stake in Telident Inc, or 431,333 common shares.
In a filing with the Securities and Exchange Commission, Okabena said the stake included the purchase of 85,000 common shares on August 15 at a price of $3 per share.
Okabena said it bought the stock for investment purposes.
Slovenian state-owned brown coal mine Zagorje said on Tuesday it had stopped production and started closing down all operations due to soaring costs which have left the mine reeling from losses.
"We are closing in line with the government's plan, according to which the mine will be closed by the year 1999," chief executive Matej Pozun told Reuters.
Zagorje is one of three brown coal mines that were scheduled for closure this year due to high production costs.
"Our coal production was too expensive and simply not competitive anymore. Apart from that, Slovenia, like other countries, is switching to ecologically friendlier energy sources like gas and oil," Pozun said.
He said the mine stopped being profitable over a decade ago and has regularly received state subsidies over the past 18 months.
At its peak in the early 1960s, the mine employed over 2,400 and produced up to 660,000 tonnes of coal per annum.
--$18.5 million Franklin Cty, N.C., GO bonds for schools.
--$37 million Hollywood, Fla., GO bonds for parks and other capital projects.
--Hillsborough County, Fla., votes on proposed sales tax hike for schools, roads and football stadium.
--Westin, Fla., residents vote whether to incorporate as new city.
-- $184 million Richland Cty, S.C., schools bonds.
-- $25 million Stokes Cty, N.C., general obligation bonds.
-- $1.870 million Martinville Ind Sch Dist, Texas, school g.o. bonds.
--$4.2 million issue, Loup City School District, Neb.
--$14.8 million Mount Vernon Ind Sch Dist, Texas, school g.o. bonds.
--$215 million King Cty, Wash., new park bonds.
--$174.6 million Richardson Ind Sch Dist, Texas, school g.o. bonds.
--$66.8 million LaPorte Ind Sch Dist, Texas, school g.o. bonds.
bonds.
--$20 million Jasper Ind Sch Dist, Texas, g.o. school bonds.
--$2 billion Los Angeles Unified School District, Calif., school bonds.
--$1.8 billion North Carolina GO bonds for schools.
--$1.75 billion New York Clean Water, Clean Air Bond Act.
Would fund a variety of environmental projects through-out the state.
--$995 million, California Proposition 204 - Safe, Clean, Reliable Water Supply Act. Would authorize the issuance of general obligation bonds to finance water programs.
--$950 million North Carolina GO bonds for highways.
--$750 million Los Angeles, Calif., park bonds.
--$700 million, California Proposition 205 - Youthful and Adult Offender Local Facilities Bond Act of 1996. Would authorize the issuance of general obligation bonds to construct, renovate, remodel and replace county juvenile and adult correctional facilities.
--$550 million West Virginia GO bonds for roads.
--$400 million, California Proposition 206 - Veterans' Bond Act of 1996. Would authorize the issuance of general obligation bonds to fund a program of farm, home and mobilehome loans.
--$319 million Los Angeles Cty, Calif., greenbelt, zoo improvement bonds.
--$300 million New Jersey port dredging bonds.
--$225 million Sacramento Unif Sch Dist, Calif., school g.o. bonds.
--$200 million Dade County, Fla., general obligation bonds for parks.
--$174.8 million Chesterfield Cty, Va., GO bonds for schools.
--$100 million San Francisco, Calif., general obligation bonds.
--$98.4 million Charlotte, N.C., GO bonds for streets and drainage.
--$43.8 million Arlington Cty, Va., county government g.o.bonds.
--$37 million Greensboro, N.C., general obligation bonds.
--$34 million Chesterfield Cty, Va., GO bonds for public safety.
--$30 million Cobb County, Ga., GO bonds for recreation.
--$29.1 million Arlington Cty, Va., g.o. school bonds.
--$25 million Greensboro, N.C., GO bonds for public safety.
--$13.5 million Chapel Hill, N.C., GO bonds for parks, streets and sidewalks.
--$12 million Sante Fe, N.M., bond measure to fund public works projects.
--$11.5 million Wilmington, N.C., GO bonds for stormwater drainage, parks and roads.
--$10.3 million Chesterfield Cty, Va., GO bonds for libraries.
--$10 million Greensboro, N.C., GO bonds for housing.
--$9.3 million Chesterfield Cty, Va., GO bonds for parks.
-- $6 million Apex, N.C., general obligation bonds.
--$1.5 million Albany, N.Y., issue.
--Louisiana parishes vote whether to keep gambling legal.
--Florida referendum on proposal requiring two-thirds voter approval for statewide tax increases.
--South Carolina referendum on amendment allowing state pension money to be invested in equities.
--Knoxville and Knox County, Tenn., vote on proposal to consolidate government.
--North Carolina amendment to give governor veto powers.
--Georgia referendum on proposal to end intangibles tax.
--Prince George's County, Md., vote on proposal to repeal property tax cap.
--Leon Cty, Fla., two-year extension of one-percent local option sales tax.
--California Proposition 210 - Minimum Wage Increase. Increases the current state minimum wage of $4.25 per hour to $5.00 per hour on March 1, 1997 and then to $5.75 per hour on March 1, 1998.
--California Proposition 217 - Top Income Tax Brackets. Continues highest tax rates of 10 percent and 11 percent on residents with taxable income over $100,000 and $200,000 respectively.
--California Proposition 218 - Voter Approval for Local Government Taxes. Limits authority of local governments to impose taxes and property-related assessments, fees and charges. Requires majority of voters approve increases in general taxes and reiterates that two-thirds must approve special taxes.
British Sky Broadcasting said on Tuesday it had not been charged mainstream UK corporation tax in its last financial year and did not expect to do so in the current year.
Finance director Richard Brooke said the company did not expect to pay corporation tax until 1997/98.
The company said in its results statement for the year to June 30, 1996 that there was no charge "as each company in the Group either incurred losses or made profits which were offset by tax losses brought forward or by group relief."
"There remain within the Group substantial tax losses and other timing differences which are expected to be available in the future to offset against Mainstream Corporation Tax liabilities," the statement added.
It said that during the year just ended the company had provided for 23.6 million stg of Advance Corporation Tax (ACT) on the year's dividends.
Note--Exports include oats and seed for sowing. Imports include seed, mixed feed oats and other oats. Exports and imports do not include grains worked of oats.
Afghanistan's opposition Taleban Islamic militia has arrested six men while investigating the escape of seven Russian airmen held hostage for more than a year, a Pakistan-based Afghan news service said on Tuesday.
The Afghan Islamic Press (AIP) said the Taleban leadership had arrested three guards and three airport officials to investigate how the Russians were able to trick their captors.
The Russians escaped to the United Arab Emirates on Friday in their own plane along with three guards. The airmen, held in Kandahar in southern Afghanistan, had been allowed by Taleban leaders to visit their Ilyushin 76 cargo plane for maintenance.
UAE authorities were expected to hand over the three guards to the International Red Crescent on Tuesday.
AIP said the chief of Taleban, Mullah Mohammad Umar, spent Saturday at the airport to examine the possibility that the Russians' escape was a conspiracy.
A Taleban spokesman had said Taleban fighters had tried to block the runway with a jeep and then sent up a MiG fighter and helicopter in vain pursuit of the lumbering cargo plane.
The Russian's returned home to a hero's welcome in Tatarstan on Monday after travelling through Moscow from the UAE.
The airmen, working for the Tatarstan-based Aerostan company, were taken prisoner after a Taleban MiG-19 fighter forced their plane to land in August 1995.
The Taleban, which controls about half of Afghanistan, said the plane's cargo of ammunition from Albania was evidence of Russian military support for President Burhanuddin Rabbani's government. Moscow said the crew's nationality was coincidental.
Poland's Consumer Federation has issued four court writs against Coca Cola's local unit seeking payment on behalf of people who say they won prizes in a promotion this year, PAP news agency said on Tuesday.
In the promotion launched by Coca-Cola Poland Services Sp. z.o.o., customers who submitted two bottle tops printed on the inside with matching dates and venues for past Olympic games, plus the same sum of money, could win cash prizes.
Four consumers say the firm did not pay out when they submitted such matching caps and have sought the consumer group's support, the Polish news agency reported.
The demands for payment before the Warsaw provincial court total 320,000 zlotys, it added.
Coca Cola spokesman Marcin Barcz told Reuters the claims arose because on some caps the number eight had been badly printed and could be taken to look like a six, arousing some false hopes.
The firm had offered such disappointed contestants the chance to take part in an additional supplementary lottery for a compensation prize, but not all had accepted, he said.
"This happened because a machine did not print a relatively small proportion of these caps entirely precisely," Barcz said.
All the winning tops were registered with a notary before the January to May "Reach for Gold" promotion and the victors were clearly identifiable despite the printing fault, he added.
Barcz said that the company, a wholly-owned unit of the Coca Cola Co, would use similar contests in the future.
The promotion aroused wide interest, with some people advertising in local newspapers in other parts of Poland for matching caps, so as to team up and split the prizes.
Coca Cola said in June that more than 600 people won sums ranging from 100 zlotys to the two main prizes of 150,000 zlotys, with payouts totalling 800,000 zlotys.
Australian commercial paper issuers came to the market for a total of A$60.3 million via tenders on Tuesday.
Regular issuer, Airservices Ltd, made the largest issue, selling A$22 million of its paper at one basis point over the mid-rate for September 20-dated bank bills.
The short end physical yield curve moved lower over the morning, with market participants cheered by expectations that the Australian government will deliver a fiscally responsible Federal budget later today.
"It's going to be a strong budget, without a doubt," said one discount securities dealer in Sydney.
!_____!____________!_____!_____!_______!_____!_______!______!
* Amounts in A$ millions.
Note: BBSW column shows bank bill mid-rate closest to maturity of issue. Tender results supplied by Commonwealth Bank of Australia, National Australia Bank and Westpac Banking Corp.
Soybean prices continued firm on Tuesday, rising 50 rupees per tonne, dealers said.
Soyoil price dipped because of poor demand. Soyoil solvent fell by 100 rupees per tonne but soyoil refined was steady.
Soymeal and rapeseed extraction also held steady. Soymeal yellow was $270-271 and soymeal black was $244-245 per tonne for export. Rapeseed extraction was $106-107 per tonne for export. Rapeseed extraction was 3,650-3,675 rupees FOR Bedibunder and was 3,625-3,650 rupees FOR Bhavnagar port.
Hiap Aik Construction Bhd has received Malaysian Securities Commission approval to acquire Green Crescent Resources Sdn Bhd, its merchant banker said on Tuesday.
Perdana Merchant Bankers said in a statement that the Securities Commission has revised the proposal submitted by the company.
Under the approval, Hiap Aik will acquire Green Crescent for 32 million ringgit, through an issue of 4.38 million new shares at 7.30 ringgit per share.
The company had proposed an issue of 7.5 million shares at an issue price of six ringgit per share.
The acquisition is also subject to the owners of Green Crescent providing a profit guarantee of 32 million ringgit in two financial years ending December, 1998.
Hiap Aik can proceed with the acquisition only after Green Crescent gets approval for a 20-acre property development project from the Selangor State Authority.
HFNC Financial Corp said Tuesday its board of directors have set its first quarterly cash dividend at $0.05 per share.
The company's board of directors also authorized a buyback of up to 859,625 shares, or about 5 percent, of the company's outstanding common stock.
The dividend is to be payable on Sept 16 (corrects from Sept 3) to stockholders of record as of Sept 3 (corrects from "of record on that day"). The quarterly cash dividend policy was initiated by its board of directors at its Aug 19 meeting.
The repurchases have been authorized to be made from time to time in open-market transactions during the rest of 1996.
In its half-year results statement, Kerry said it was on target to complete the integration of the DCA food ingredients business in the current financial year.
Kerry acquired the U.S. food ingredients company for $402 million in November 1994.
Earlier this year, Kerry also acquired Ciprial S.A., a specialist fruit ingredients company with operations in France and Italy.
"With the addition of Ciprial, we are now focusing on maximising the potential of the combined Ciprial/Margetts fruit ingredients businesses on a European-wide basis," Kerry said.
Earlier, the group reported a 21 percent increase in pre-tax profits to 20.0 million Irish pounds, ahead of analysts expectations of 19.2 million.
Kerry said that all divisions performed strongly in the first half with turnover increasing by nine percent to 589.4 million Irish pounds.
A divisional breakdown showed that Kerry Ingredients reported an increase in operating profits to 29.4 million Irish pounds from 27.4 million a year earlier.
Sales were up 332.2 million from 299.9 million.
Kerry Foods, the group's consumer foods division, reported a 15 percent increase in operating profits to 10.0 million on sales of 226.8 million with operating margins rising to 4.4 percent from 4.1 percent in the first half of 1995.
"While the bovine spongiform encephalopahty (BSE) scare did affect sales in some business areas at the end of the first quarter, strong advances in branded product sales in the second quarter contributed to the satisfactory margin improvement reported," the company said.
Geographically, Kerry said that turnover in its Irish market was static but the group recorded progress in all its major markets.
Irish sales were little changed at 213.1 million against 213.6 million in the same period last year.
But turnover in European markets excluding Ireland rose by 22 percent to 186 million punts, sales in North America increased by nine percent to 190.3 million.
PaineWebber Inc said Tuesday it tentatively priced $61.5 million Community Development Administration, Md., bonds at a top yield of 6.25 percent in 2028.
ALL BONDS ARE PRICED AT PAR.
OFFICIAL STATEMENT.
ALL BONDS ARE PRICED AT PAR.
OFFICIAL STATEMENT.
The award is expected Wednesday, August 21, 1996.
Delivery is expected on September 5, 1996.
This issue is book entry through DTC.
Bear, Stearns & Co. Inc.
Ferris, Baker Watts Inc.
Legg Mason Wood Walker, Inc.
Artemis Capital Group, Inc.
Following are some of the main stories in Tuesday's Pakistani newspapers.
- Pakistani government has decided to set up an inquiry commission to identify big loan defaulters.
- Police arrested three people, believed to have been involved in an attack on a Shi'ite meeting on Sunday in which 18 people were reported killed.
- The U.S. sanctions against Iran will not put the time-tested Pakistan-Iran ties in jeopardy, said the Iranian Minister for Petroleum Ghulam Reza Aghazadeh now in Pakistan on a three-day visit.
- Out of the total of 50 billion rupees raised from sale of state-owned companies, the government has utilised about one-third of the amount for debt-retirement, federal minister for privatisation Naveed Qamar said.
- Pakistan will sign a $26 million loan agreement with the International Development Association aimed at improving financial reporting and auditing in Pakistan, sources said.
- The Setdco Group of Indonesia and Dutch PTT Telecom have arrived in Karachi triggering a flurry of intensive negotiations to form an Indonesian-Dutch-Pakistan consortium that could bid for the 26 percent strategic stake in the state-run Pakistan Telecommunication Company Limited.
- The government is considering to merge the state-run Cotton Export Corporation and the Rice Export Corporation of Pakistan with the Trading Corporation of Pakistan.
- The Privatisation Commission will hold bidding for Malam Jabba ski-cum-summer resort.
- The recently privatised Kot Addu Power Co signed a 2.75 billion rupees loan agreement syndicated by nine banks to finance working capital needs of the company.
- Tuntex of Taipei has cancelled plans for a $400 million purified terephthalic acid (PTA) venture in Pakistan, says a report in New York based Chemical Week.
- The Pakistan-United States Defence Consultative Group will begin its three-day meeting on October 20 and take up a broad-based agenda for increased cooperation.
- The United Nations warcrime tribunal in the Hague announced that Saad Saood Jan would replace fellow Pakistani judge Rsutan Sidhwa.
Kmart Corp said Tuesday it has appointed William Anderson to the post of senior vice president and general merchandise manager of hardlines, effective September 3.
Anderson's responsibilities include the merchandising of sporting goods, hardware, home improvements, toys, stationery and automotive supplies.
Anderson was previously the president and chief operating officer of Oshman's Sporting Goods.
The government on Tuesday ended almost three months of testimony against three militant Moslems accused of plotting to bomb 12 U.S. passenger jets to punish America for its support of Israel.
The three have been on trial in Manhattan federal court since May for their alleged plan to destroy the planes within a 48-hour period last year and kill about 4,000 passengers as they returned to the United States from the Far East.
The alleged ringleader of the airline bombing scheme is Ramzi Ahmed Yousef, who will be tried again this year on charges that he masterminded the 1993 World Trade Centre bombing that killed six people and injured more than 1,000.
Other defendants in the airline scheme are Abdul Hakim Murad and Wali Khan Amin Shah.
The end of the government's case, which presented about 47 witnesses and more than 1,000 pieces of evidence, signalled it could go to the jury by Labour Day on Sept. 2. Yousef, who is representing himself with the assistance of a court-appointed lawyer, began presenting his witnesses on Tuesday afternoon and will continue on Wednesday.
The trial had moved into a crucial stage of testimony last month near the time of the explosion that destroyed TWA Flight 800 off the coast of New York, killing all 230 people aboard.
Speculation that a bomb caused the explosion and reports that possible sabotage might be linked to Yousef or his associates caused U.S. District Judge Kevin Duffy to question jurors about whether they could remain fair. None of the jurors said their judgment of the defendants would be affected by the TWA explosion.
Less than a week after the plane crash, a Microsoft expert walked jurors through key files taken from a laptop computer recovered from an apartment shared by Yousef and Murad. Jurors were shown schedules for Delta, Northwest and United flights bound for the United States from the Far East.
After each departure time was the word "timer" followed by what appeared to be a detonation time. At the top of the file was the word "Bojinka," which prosecutors say was the name the defendants gave to the airline bombing plot.
Yousef is also charged with placing a bomb on a Philippine Airlines flight from Manila to Tokyo on Dec. 11, 1994, as a trial run for the later massive explosions. The bomb exploded under the seat of a Japanese passenger, killing him and injuring 10 other people.
The flight originated in Manila and Yousef allegedly left the plane during a stopover. Prosecutors alleged that he mixed the bomb in a restroom during the first leg of the flight and placed it under his seat with the timer set to detonate the bomb after the plane left for Toyko.
The schedules in the laptop computer were for flights with stopovers before they reached the United States.
Last week a Secret Service agent testified that Yousef boasted during his extradition flight from Pakistan, where he was arrested, to New York that he would have blown up several jets within a few weeks if his plan had not been discovered.
The plot to bomb the airliners was uncovered on Jan. 6, 1995, when a fire broke out in a Manila apartment where Yousef and Murad were mixing chemicals. Philippine police found the laptop computer during their search of the apartment.
Tunisia has launched an international tender for the establishment of a GSM cellular phone network all around the country, officials said on Tuesday.
The tender by state-run Office National des Telecommunications called "Tunisie Telecom" is for delivery, installation, bringing on line and acceptance of work done, they said.
Tunisia in 1994 signed with Northern Telecom Inc, a U.S.-based subsidiary of Canada's Northern Telecom Inc, a $40 million contract for the establishment of a GSM trial switch limited to Tunis only, in addition to the installation of 360,000 lines of Digital Multiplex System (DMS) switches.
Levi Strauss & Co. said Tuesday it was launching a line of slacks meant to appeal to men who don't like suits, in only the third major brand introduction in the company's 140-year history.
The new slacks, to be called Slates, will be marketed as dressier than the company's famous jeans or its Dockers pants brand, but not as formal as suits.
The pants, to be aimed at men in their 30s and 40s who grew up wearing Levi's jeans and Dockers khakis, are meant to give a big boost to the San Francisco-based clothing company, though how well men accept the new line remains to be seen, industry analysts said.
"We're going to awaken a sleeping giant of a category that we think has enormous potential," Jann Westfall, president of the Slates brand, said in a statement.
Those men want something different to wear as the workplace gets more casual, "a new look for business and social occasions that falls between casual cotton pants and suits," Westfall said.
The pants will come in flannel, wool gabardine and other fabrics with a suggested retail price of $50 to $90 a pair, said Lory Cogan, Levi vice president for marketing.
The new line will come in a broad range of styles, colours and sizes, and the pants in most cases will not require tailoring, which Levi hopes will lure men who want hassle-free shopping.
Cogan said research revealed that men hate to shop for dress pants and believe "it's more enjoyable to go to the dentist" because they can't find what they need or like.
Slates aims to change that when it makes its debut this fall in department stores, backed by a $20 million marketing campaign.
"They will probably dominate the market," said retail consultant Alan Millstein. He added that slacks are a small market with very few players, such as the Haggar and Farah brands.
He said that Levi Strauss is trying to expand its business by going after the $1.9 billion-a-year market, but he doesn't see it as a "great growth engine" for the company.
Millstein questioned how many pairs of slacks men would buy at the prices set by Levi's.
A research study done last year for the company showed that 85 percent of American companies that had a traditional dress code were now allowing some form of more casual attire in the workplace.
In a national telephone survey of men in their 30s and 40s, almost half of men who do not work in jeans or a uniform said their office dress code is somewhere between suits and cotton pants, according to Levi Strauss.
Westfall believes Slates will allow men to express more individuality, youthfulness and personal style than they can in a suit. She said the pants have an "accessible style."
The privately held company, which employs 36,000 people around the world, had global sales of $6.7 billion in 1995.
NOTE: QNI Ltd is a nickel producer.
Asian Pulp & Paper closed at 11-3/8 in New York on Tuesday. It recorded the day's low of 11-3/8 and the day's high of 11-1/2.
Volume was 23,600 American Depository Shares. Block volume was nil. Its previous close on Monday was 11-3/8.
One ADS represents four common shares.
-- Jakarta newsroom (Tel: 6221-3846364).
NOTE: Share amounts reflect the company's initial public offering, effective July 29, 1996.
Four people, including an 11-year-old girl, were shot to death execution-style in their home in a working class Sao Paulo suburb, police said on Tuesday.
The attack early on Tuesday in Guarulhos was the latest in a spate of violent crimes that has shattered middle-class tranquility in South America's largest city.
A police detective said Raimundo Oliveira da Silva, 44, his wife Sandra, 25, daughter Solange and friend Jonas Carvalho Setti, 33, were slain when five or six men broke into their home and opened fire.
Three others were injured in the hail of bullets, the detective said. Two small children escaped injury.
News reports said Da Silva's 21-year-old son was a key suspect, but police would not confirm the reports.
The slayings were the city's 33rd multiple homocide this year, representing more than 600 deaths, radio and television reports said.
auction, the bank said.
Pakistan Air Force's business and welfare group Shaheen Foundation joined a Dutch-Indonesian consortium on Tuesday to bid for the state-run Pakistan Telecommunication Company Ltd (PTCL).
A Shaheen Foundation statement said it had joined with Setdco group of Indonesia and Dutch PTT Telecom to bid for a 26 percent strategic stake and management control of PTCL.
Pakistan is yet to announce a date for the bidding.
"If successful this consortium would not only bring over $2 billion in foreign exchange but also modernise and expand the present communication network in the country," it added.
Business executives from Setdco and PTT Telecom arrived in Islamabad on Tuesday for a three-day stay to meet and government and PTCL officials, said Zubair Ejaz, a Privatisation Commission consultant.
NOTE - Shibuya Kogyo Co Ltd operates domestic bottling plants.
-- Santander Investment said it has initiated coverage of Brazilian power firm Cemig, which is majority owned by Minas Gerais state, with a buy rating and set a 12- to 18-month price target of $41 per 1,000 shares.
-- Cemig is expected to report earnings of $2 per 1,000 shares in 1996, $1.67 in 1997 and $2.11 in 1998, the bank said in a statement.
-- "The stock currently trades at a 20 percent discount to Copel, the only other integrated Brazilian utility, and at a 40 percent discount to an average of Chilean and Argentine generators," the bank said.
-- Minas Gerais's abundant hydropower potential, Cemig's strong cash-generating capacity, possible benefits from privatization of its gas distribution unit and its current attractive valuation also support the buy rating, the bank said.
-- Among concerns are Cemig's low-margin client base, the state's below national average demand and distortions from accounting changes, it added.
-- Cemig preferred was down 1.9 percent at 31.00 reais ($30.57) at 1616 local time/1516 EDT on the Sao Paulo Stock Exchange.
Japan said Tuesday that game machines, tickets to soccer matches and imported rice will replace traditional socks worn with the kimono and corned beef as items used to measure the nation's price movements.
New items also include golf fees and delivered pizza.
In a move underlining changes in consumer tastes, the government announced it was revising the selection of goods it uses to track price trends to include more up-to-date items.
"We are adding 37 items to a basket of goods purchased by households to better measure recent price moves," said an official of the government's Management and Coordination Agency.
The agency updates the components and changes the base year for Japan's consumer price index every five years.
The new CPI will cover 580 items after dropping goods like harmonicas, which Japanese children learn to play in school, and a pressed-fish sausage eaten as a snack.
With many consumer items now sold at discount stores in recent years, analysts question if the new basket can still detect price movements accurately.
"It is very important to see whether they will put a greater weighting on discount stores in their analysis," said Russell Jones, chief economist at Lehman Brothers.
"We are not ignoring prices at discount stores, but we cannot say how many items sold discounted are analysed," the agency official said.
The agency said prices have almost stopped dropping after several years of decline during the prolonged recession that followed the collapse of the 1980s "bubble" economy.
CPI figures are issued every month.
Brazil's real fell 0.10 percent to close at 1.0141 per dollar in the commercial foreign exchange market after the central bank set a weaker mini-band for the local currency at 1.014 to 1.019 per dollar, dealers said.
The Central Bank confirmed market expectations and set a new trading level by buying dollars at 1.014 real and selling at 1.019 reais in a auction shortly after the opening.
The previous mini-band for the fluctuation of the real, set on Friday, was between 1.013 and 1.018 to the dollar.
In late afternoon the central bank bought dollars at 1.0140 reais per greenback to support the new mini-band, traders said.
Preliminary figures for commercial and financial foreign exchange contracts showed a Tuesday surplus of around $44 million in late afternoon.
In the interbank floating rate market, the real dropped 0.17 percent to end at 1.0186 to the dollar. In the illegal parallel market, the real close at 1.033 per greenback, down 0.19 percent.
Australis Media Ltd said on Tuesday a consortium involving Kerry Packer's Publishing and Broadcasting Ltd and Lenfest Communications Inc would provide the company with US$105 million of equity finance.
Australis also said it had concluded a joint venture agreement to share DTH satellite infractructure with fellow pay television operator Optus Vision.
British mobile telephone group Orange Plc on Tuesday reported a jump in first-half pre-tax losses to 125.2 million pounds ($193.6 million), almost half as much again as in the first half of 1995.
But Orange, whose shares have fallen well below the level at which they were floated in March, said the losses were as forecast and blamed the continued weakness in its stock on misplaced pessimism about the British mobile telephone market.
"A lot of people do not understand this transition process in our market place," group managing director Hans Snook told Reuters in an interview, referring to fears that growth in new business was falling as the market became more mature.
"Our net growth has increased dramatically," he added, saying it was succeeding in all key areas which drive the business.
Orange said its turnover more than doubled over the first half of the year to 256.5 million pounds from 100.0 million as it added a further 194,000 subscribers to take its total customer base to 573,000.
Snook said the figure had since increased to more than 600,000, giving it 10 percent of a market led by Vodafone Group and British Telecom's 60 percent-held Cellnet.
Shares in Orange gained four pence to 191 after the results, which compared with a loss of 88.8 million a year earlier.
But the stock is still well short of the 205 pence level of its flotation, which valued the group at some 2.5 billion pounds and propelled it into the FTSE-100 index of leading British shares.
Orange, whose major shareholder remains the Hong Kong-based Hutchison Whampoa Ltd group which, along with joint venture partner British Aerospace, brought it to market, is not expected to turn a profit or offer a dividend until 1998.
But Orange points to its "churn" -- the percentage of cancelled subscriptions over a year -- which has now fallen to 17.6 percent, against the 25-30 percent levels experienced by other mobile players, as proof of the quality of its business.
It was also proud that it had pushed its average revenue gained per subscriber up fractionally to 446 pounds per head at a time when most mobile networks around the world are seeing their revenues per customer eroded by price-competition.
"We are not trying to attract the impulse buyer or the emergency user, both of whom offer low revenues as subscribers," Snook told a news briefing later on.
Analysts said the results, and particularly the churn and revenue per subscriber statistics, would go somewhere towards reassuring investors that Orange could deliver on its flotation promises and put a floor under the shares.
"I think we've hit bottom. A run up to 200 pence is perfectly feasible," James Ross, an analyst at brokerage ABN Amro Hoare Govett, said.
But others said Orange, without an earnings or dividend history, was still vulnerable to the type of knock-on effect experienced earlier in the year when it was hit by weakness in U.S technology stocks.
"With new operators coming onto the U.S. (mobile) market, there could be a shake-out there, and U.S. investors tend to think that what holds for the U.S. market is true elsewhere," SGST analyst John Tysoe said.
* A forecast underlying budget deficit of A$5.65 billion and a headline budget surplus of A$474 million for 1996/97, compared with deficits of A$10.3 billion and A$5 billion respectively for 1995/96.
* CPI is forecast to average two percent over 1996/97. The Treasury's underlying measure of inflation is projected to average 2.75 percent over the same period.
* Australia's current account deficit is predicted to total A$20 billion, or four percent of GDP, in 1996/97.
* Budget measures to boost the bottom line by A$3.9 billion in 1996/97, rising to A$7.2 billion in the following fiscal year.
* Outlays, excluding asset sales and debt repayments by the states, are projected to steady at A$135.8 billion in 1996/97, against A$132 billion the year before. The proposed sale of a third of state-owned telecommunications carrier Telstra has been included in the 1997/98 and 1998/99 budget forecasts, but no estimate of the expected proceeds were given.
* Revenue is projected to rise by four percent to A$130 billion in 1996/97.
* New revenue-raising measures include a crackdown on tax avoidance and tax minimisation, as well as a tax surcharge on the superannuation savings of high-income earners.
The Australian Stock Exchange (ASX) said on Tuesday it had implemented the second stage of its Clearing House Electronic Sub-register System (CHESS) on Monday.
"The sale of a full range of approved equities on the ASX commenced electronic settlement on CHESS yesterday," the ASX said in a media release.
The implementation was the final stage of a settlement improvement programme that began in 1989 with the introduction of optional uncertificated shareholdings, the ASX said.
"ASX now has a world-class equities settlement system, which will be a key factor in ensuring that we remain globally competitive," said ASX managing director, David Humphry.
The system currently settles trades five days after the trade but the ASX said it plans to narrow the settlement period to three days in 1997.
The New Zealand government thumbed its nose at public and political opposition on Tuesday by proceeding with the privatisation of a huge plantation forest less than two months before a general election.
The privatisation was New Zealand's second biggest after the 1990 sale of Telecom Corp for more than twice that price.
Finance Minister Bill Birch said he would use the net proceeds of NZ$1.6 billion to repay debt, allowing New Zealand to eliminate net foreign debt for the first time since a 1954 wool boom caused by the Korean War.
A separate TVNZ poll on Monday showed more than 60 percent of New Zealanders opposed the privatisation of Forestry Corp, which controls 188,000 hectares (465,000 acres) of prime pine and fir forest in the central North Island.
Alliance Party leader Jim Anderton called the sale a betrayal. "The sale of Forestry Corporation is a betrayal of New Zealanders which will not be forgotten when votes are cast on October 12," he said.
But Birch was unrepentant, saying the sale price, exactly NZ$2.026 billion, exceeded the book value and would create new investment and jobs.
The Fletcher group planned to build a "world-scale solid wood processing plant in the central North Island."
"The sale is an important new step in the development of New Zealand's forestry industry," Birch said.
The Fletcher group outbid U.S. giant Weyerhaeuser and local forestry giant Carter Holt Harvey, which had teamed up with Malaysia's Jaya Tiasa and central North Island Maori tribes who claim the land the forest stands on.
Fletcher Forest chief executive Mike Andrews said his group now controlled a forest estate of 300,000 hectares (741,300 acres).
"This will create a critical mass that will bring many benefits for New Zealand," he said.
But even some members of the government were unsure about the wisdom of the sale, fearing job losses as Forestry Corp's and Fletcher's operations were rationalised.
"Nor can I say all my concerns, particularly with respect to the development of the best long-term strategy for forestry in New Zealand and a healthy investment programme which leads to jobs and higher incomes with this bid, have been satisfied," Bradford said.
Children's rights campaigners are urging governments worldwide to give their courts the powers to prosecute paedophiles who travel overseas to have sex with children.
Organisers of the first international conference on the sexual exploitation of children say lawyers and police often find themselves unable to take action against child sex tourists because the crimes fall outside their jurisdiction.
Awareness of the problem is growing, with the United Nations Children's Fund estimating at least one million children -- mainly from developing countries -- are forced into prostitution, sold for sexual purposes, or used in pornography each year.
But at present only 12 countries permit the prosecution of child sex tourists in their home countries for crimes committed against children abroad, or allow the investigation of such crimes by their nationals in other countries.
"In other countries, penal provisions do not reach further than the territory of the country," said Madeleine Leijonhuvud, a Swedish criminal law professor who is joint organiser of the conference to be held in Stockholm from August 27 to 31.
"It leaves lawyers and police frustrated as nothing can be done."
Leijonhuvud said there was an urgent need to strengthen and harmonise laws internationally, including a global agreement on the age of consent.
Laws regarding child pornography also varied widely, with Sweden, for example, still allowing possession of such material.
"When any country does not live up to international standards -- like Sweden and child pornography -- it can cause problems for other countries trying to take action," Leijonhuvud told Reuters.
A Bangkok-based lobby group, End Child Prostitution in Asian Tourism (ECPAT), said penalties imposed on child sex tourists were not severe enough and were often lighter if the victim was a foreign child.
In Sweden, for example, a man last year received a custodial sentence of just three months when he was found guilty of sexually abusing a child in Thailand.
"It has been suggested in relation to that case that the penalty would have been greater if the abused child had been Swedish," said Muireann O'Briain of ECPAT's working group on law reform and law enforcement.
ECPAT pointed to Australian legislation, introduced two years ago, as a model for other countries.
Of the 12 countries that currently allow their nationals to be prosecuted at home for sex crimes against children abroad, Australia has the highest rate of action and the most severe penalties, including jail terms of up to 17 years.
A 44-year-old man from Sydney was the first person to be imprisoned under the law in March this year, when he was convicted of offences against children in the Philippines.
Leaflets warning of the legal consequences are circulated in key destination countries for Australian sex tourists, such as Thailand and the Philippines, and are also distributed in Australian airports and by some travel agents.
"There is no doubt that (Australia) is doing more about this issue than any other industrialised country," ECPAT national director Bernadette McMenamin told Reuters.
Christian Aid representative Martin Cottingham, who is to attend this month's conference, said Britain needed to speed up its proposals for similar extraterritorial legislation.
"(We want) early implementation and extra police resources to ensure prosecutions which will deter would-be child-sex offenders," Cottingham said in a statement.
The introduction of extraterritorial legislation is seen as only the first step against child sex tourists.
Stockholm conference organiser and former Swedish ambassador Tom Tscherning said resources needed to be set aside to help implement the laws, which includes gathering evidence abroad and bringing witnesses to court.
"Cooperation between governmental law enforcement agencies and INTERPOL is vitally important," Tscherning told Reuters.
"Laws are the ultimate protection for children and not enough is being done either to make laws sufficiently strong or to enforce them when they are in place."
Sweden's Queen Silvia, patron of the conference, has joined the campaign for tougher laws against paedophiles.
In an unprecedented outburst during a recent television interview, she rebuked Swedish politicians for not taking firm enough action and called for the name and photograph of anyone who sexually abused a child to be published nationally.
The queen said she had seen some pornographic films involving children and was devastated by the images, saying all politicians should watch these films to make them act.
"It is the worst thing I have ever seen," the queen said. "It is torture of the worst kind."
Investors with "exploration fever" have latched onto Black Swan Gold Mines Ltd, hoping drill results expected this week will line their pockets with paper profits.
"There certainly are rumors that the results they've got from their Brazilian exploration are going to be positive," said Fred Ketchen, senior vice-president at ScotiaMcLeod.
"It's all part of the current phenomenon -- exploration fever."
Black Swan was the most active stock on the Toronto Stock Exchange on Tuesday after heavy trading on Monday and last Friday. The stock was down C$0.05 to C$1.45 on volume of 2.6 million shares Tuesday.
But the flurry of speculative interest in the stock is not linked to anything concrete, company spokesman Richard Simpson said from the company's headquarters in Vancouver.
Drilling results from Black Swan's 50 percent-owned gold project in Brazil likely will released until later this week, he said, adding that the results are very preliminary.
"I know there'll be gold in the hole," said Simpson. "As to what grade it will be, whether it will be above or below the expectations of the market, I simply don't know. They're always looking for pretty jazzy stuff."
The rumor in the market is that the results will be good, and investors, especially institutional investors under pressure to show robust returns, are placing their bets, analysts said.
Mutual funds that burnished their performances on high returns from investments in such high-flying explorations stocks as Bre-X Resources Ltd and Diamond Fields Resources are quick to pile into junior mining shares with any hint of potential.
Although many previously Hot junior mining stocks cooled off quickly in June and July, investors seem to have forgotten their earlier rough ride, said Barry Cooper, a mining analyst at Wood Gundy.
"The 'once burned twice shy' saying doesn't work in junior gold stocks," he noted.
The attraction with Black Swan is a limited downside, since the stock has been trading around the C$1.50 mark, added ScotiaMcLeod's Ketchen.
"Whereas the upside potential, if they come up with something, can be rather impressive."
Black Swan shares its Cata Preta gold project in the Brazilian State of Minas Gerais with Sul America Mineracao Ltda, a Brazilian company.
Black Swan is in the midst of negotiating a takeover of its partner to gain a 100 percent interest in the Cata Preta and acquire Sul America's other Brazilian properties.
The drill results expected this week are from hole 23, the first of a 30-hole series expected to be completed by the end of the year.
Black Swan plans to drill a total of 150 holes to determine how much gold lies beneath a surface deposit already explored.
The London P&I club improved its financial position last year and is ready to expand with caution, the ship-owners mutual insurer said in its 1996 annual report.
The protection and indemnity club more than doubled its accumulated reserve last year to $81.48 million from $37.69 million in 1994, while assets amounted to $372 million, up 4.8 percent.
"The club has never been in a stronger financial position. Our growing financial strength is gaining recognition in the market," chairman John Lyras said in a statement.
This was a comfortable, but not an excessive level of reserves, he told a news conference.
The London club was a medium sized club and had no plans to become one of the larger clubs, but would pursue a gradual growth strategy, Graham Edmiston, chairman of managing agent A Bilbrough & Co Ltd, said.
"It's not in our interests to be overly greedy. We shall continue our natural growth of the last few years," he said.
London club tonnage at February 19 totalled 26.97 million tonnes, up 1.18 million tonnes over the year.
The club maintained a selective new business policy, concentrating on bulk tankers and carriers, with most of its business in Europe, the Far East and Greece.
The average age of club vessels was 16.5 years compared with the world average of 18 years. The average size was 26,500 gross tonnes.
On the controversial P&I issue of limiting the additional liability on shipowners in the event of a single catastrophe, Edmiston said he expected the limit would be reduced from the current $20 billion cap.
Pressure was growing among P&I club members for the limit, which was agreed only after much debate last year, to be reduced, probably to around $2.0-3.0 billion.
Fourteen P&I clubs form the International Group and provide insurance cover for more than 95 percent of the world's merchant fleet.
Costello said in a radio interview that the previous Labor government probably wanted to break up Telstra and privatise its assets separately, but the new conservative government felt it was better to keep Telstra intact.
"We think that's better because we keep a major Australian company together as an Australian company and we can introduce private shareholding to make sure that it stays an Australian company in Australian hands as one whole ...," Costello said.
CBOT wheat futures closed lower on diminished fears about frost damage to the Canadian wheat crop and on concern about prospects for sales of soft red winter wheat to Egypt, traders said.
"They're downplaying the threat of frost next week in Canada and that's weighing on wheat," said Vic Lespinasse of Dean Witter Reynolds.
Meteorologists cited a diminished possibility of frost next week in Canada's spring wheat areas. The market was boosted Monday on concern about outlooks for freezing temperatures next week, the traders said.
An Environment Canada meteorologist said Tuesday there was a slight risk of frost damage to Canadian grain in the foothills of Alberta on Wednesday morning and along the Saskatchewan/Manitoba border on Thursday.
Traders also cited Egypt's purchase over the weekend of U.S. white wheat rather than soft red winter as a bearish market factor.
"Egypt may not accept any more soft red wheat because of vomitoxin," said Ron Kucha of O'Connor and Co.
Wheat closed two to five cents per bushel lower, with September down five at $4.54-1/2.
Wheat was underpinned by concerns about potential rain-delayed harvest of the U.S. spring wheat crop and a decline in the condition rating for North Dakota's crop. USDA Monday said North Dakota wheat was 60 percent good to excellent, down from 63 percent the previous week.
Wheat futures volume was estimated at 16,000, down from 18,599 Monday.
Wheat options trading was relatively quiet with volume estimated at 6,000, up from 3,747 Monday.
Argentine President Carlos Menem was scheduled to arrive in Kuala Lumpur on Thursday morning to start official visits to Malaysia and Indonesia, the Foreign Ministry said on Tuesday.
Menem was to be accompanied by Foreign Minister Guido Di Tella and a business delegation.
Menem's agenda in Malaysia included meetings with the Petronas oil company and Prime Minister Mahathir Mohamad.
He was to leave on Monday for Indonesia and for a meeting with President Suharto.
Pakistani Prime Minister Benazir Bhutto vowed on Tuesday to end sectarian politics in her country, which has suffered a spate of violence between rival Moslem sects.
"We are all Moslems and cannot allow anyone to take precious lives," the official APP news agency quoted her as telling reporters in the nearby town of Rawalpindi.
"That is why we have vowed to put an end to sectarian politics," she said two days after 18 people were killed in an attack on a Shi'ite sect religious meeting at a village in the central province of Punjab.
Bhutto said she was deeply concerned about the sectarian violence in Punjab and the southern province of Sindh and a number of arrests had been made there.
Police said they had arrested three men in Chak-205 village southeast of the main southern Punjab city of Multan on suspicion of aiding gunmen who attacked the Shi'ite meeting there on Sunday. Shi'ite places of worship were being guarded, they added.
The attacks in Karachi and Chak-205, which followed several individual assassinations, raised fears that militants from the majority Sunni and the minority Shi'ite sects could plunge Pakistan into a new cycle of reprisals.
Shi'ites form about 15 percent of Pakistan's Sunni-dominated population of 130 million.
"We are against sectarian politics and the groups involved need to be combatted and a culture developed to counter such trends," Bhutto said. "With stringent measures against sectarianism, such type of politics will be eliminated from the country."
On Monday, the leader of the Shi'ite Tehrik-e-Jafria Pakistan movement, Allama Sajid Naqvi, said the country could face civil war if the government failed to check sectarian violence.
He spoke after leading funeral prayers for the dead Shi'ites at Chak-205.
On Monday, a previously-unknown Sunni militant group calling itself Lashkar-e-Jhangvi claimed responsibility for Sunday's killings, indicating it had retaliated for the killing of 12 Sunnis in an attack on a procession in Karachi last Wednesday.
The Karachi attack was on an Independence Day march of the militant Sunni Sipah-e-Sahaba Pakistan (SSP) group.
Hundreds of other Aborigines staged rallies in Brisbane and Adelaide against already announced cuts to indigenous funding in the 1996/97 budget, which Costello formally unveiled on Tuesday.
Announcing a A$5.6 billion (US$4.4 billion) underlying deficit for the fiscal year to June 30, 1997, Costello defended the cuts, saying the Liberal-National government had taken the tough decisions needed to turn Australia away from "a path to deficit and debt" in its first budget.
"This is the once-in-the-term, once-in-the-decade opportunity to get it right," he told reporters.
The budget slashed A$3.9 billion from hundreds of government programmes, but centred largely on aboriginal affairs, universities and schemes to help the jobless find work.
The spending cuts, many of which had been announced ahead of the budget, have sparked widespread protests around the country and triggered rioting at parliament house here on Monday.
There were more protests on Tuesday as aboriginal groups and unionists continued to vent their anger.
Costello said the cuts, to be followed by similar reductions next year, would attack Australia's chronic underlying budget deficit and burgeoning debt. The underlying measure excludes revenue windfalls such as asset sales.
"(Without the cuts) debt would be increasing and Australia would be dangerously exposed to shifts in the international outlook or sentiment," Costello said in his budget speech.
But he also honoured key campaign promises that helped the Liberal-National coalition oust Labor in a landslide March election win, implementing A$1 billion in tax breaks for low and middle income families, more money for the elderly and a range of programmes and tax changes to help small business.
"This budget implements the key election commitments of the coalition and it does so as part of a responsible economic strategy," Costello told parliament.
The budget, the first by a conservative government after 13 years of Labor rule, does little to address Australia's high unemployment, which is forecast to remain at 8.5 percent.
The Labor opposition and minor parties have threatened to block budget measures in parliament's upper house, the Senate, where the government does not have a majority.
But Costello warned an obstructionist Senate would jeorpardise the economic turnaround.
"The Senate could knock this budget around. But if it does, it's knocking around our future," he told reporters.
"If we hadn't taken measures in this budget, which are designed over two years to reduce the underlying bottom line by A$7.2 billion, Australia would have been on a path to deficit and debt to the year 2000."
The projected A$5.6 billion underlying deficit is less than half the A$10.3 billion shortfall in 1995/96. The 1996/97 headline result, which takes all figures into account, is a A$474 million surplus.
Costello said the budget measures were aimed at cementing sustainable economic growth, reducing debt, boosting national savings and creating jobs.
The budget papers gave an optimistic outlook for the Australian economy, with growth forecast at 3.5 percent in 1996/97, against 4.1 percent in 1995/96.
Inflation is seen falling to two percent from 4.2 percent and unemployment is projected to remain steady at 8.5 percent.
About 150 Aborigines attacked police with bricks, bottles and stakes during a 20-minute confrontation at the old parliament house.
One policewoman was repeatedly kicked and has been taken to hospital in a serious condition, a police spokeswoman said.
			  (Range)				  Apprx pct.
offered by leading banks, corporates.
# To contribute to this daily composite rate, please telephone Samir Shah at Money Desk on (022) 265-9000.
Firmer British cash prices and fears thunderstorms forecast for this week may disrupt the end of the harvest stopped a decline in French wheat prices, traders said on Tuesday.
Wheat prices dropped by up to 15 francs on Monday after a weekend of excellent weather helped the harvest make good progress.
Soft wheat for August delivery at Rouen was bid at 885 francs, unchanged from the previous session.
Matif September wheat futures were down by up to 30 francs to 870 francs in thin late trade.
Barley was slightly firmer at 830 francs for September and October delivery to private silos. Barley prices largely ignored news top barley importer Saudi Arabia was in the market for 800,000 tonnes of optional-origin feed barley.
The EU is widely expected to help cover a possible sale to the Saudis with German intervention barley stocks, dealers said.
Old crop maize was firmer on a technical rebound with prompt Bordeaux delivery up 10 francs to 955 francs. New crop maize was unchanged at 925 francs for October-December delivery into Bordeaux.
PT Tri Polyta Indonesia closed at 8-3/4 in New York on Tuesday. It recorded the day's high of 8-7/8 and the day's low 8-3/4.
Its previous close on Monday was 8-3/4.
Volume on Tuesday was 64,000 American Depository Shares (ADS). Block volume was 50,000.
One ADS represents 10 common shares.
Diamond giant De Beers said on Tuesday the withdrawal of Australian producer Argyle from its Central Selling Organisation (CSO) had been a blow but the global diamond cartel would nevertheless survive.
"It was a great disappointment to us that they decided to go their own way. This is obviously something that is a blow to our argument about single channel marketing," De Beers deputy chairman Nicholas Oppenheimer said.
Argyle, contributing about six percent to the CSO's sales, produces a vast quantity of very low quality diamonds.
Speaking at a Foreign Correspondents Association lunch, Oppenheimer said that despite the Australian secession, the CSO would live on because it held the key to stability in a market based, not on material value, but on the perception of value.
"A cartel depends on co-operation of all members of the diamond family. The industry may be easily damaged if anything got out of kelter. We see the CSO as protecting all its members. Customers expect that what they purchase will hold its value."
"A gemstone is the ultimate luxury product. It has no material use. Men and women desire to have diamonds not for what they (diamonds) can do but for what they desire," he said.
Under De Beers' stewardship, producers are fully aware of the prices they are able to win for their products.
He urged the Canadians -- whose new mines are due to come on line within five years -- to keep a balanced market in mind.
"People in Canada or elsewhere need to bear that in mind when they think about how to market their diamonds."
De Beers sells about 75 percent of the world's diamond production through its CSO, which posted record diamond sales of $2.748 billion in the first six months of 1996.
The diamond market was hit by uncertainty at the start of the year when Russian producers dallied in renewing a marketing deal with the CSO when it expired last December.
Large numbers of renegade gemstones found themselves directly on the open market, undermining the balance.
When in February De Beers and Russia's Almazy Rossii Sakha signed a memorandum of understanding, confidence again returned to the market, only to be swayed by Argyle's desertion in June.
"February's memorandum of understanding had an immediate and dramatic effect on the diamond market. It will hopefully turn into a deal now that the elections are over," Oppenheimer said.
Argyle's withdrawal was an even greater disappointment because having signed with the Russians, De Beers had hoped to see confidence and stability returning to the market.
The Indian market had been certain the Australian contract would be renewed and was confident about carrying high levels of diamond stocks. When the deal fell through, the Indian market panicked about the value of their stockpiles.
"They were confident in carrying those stocks (because of the renewed deal). When it became apparent that this wasn't the case, they became concerned about the value of these stocks. It snowballed until we have this situation where we are concerned about the Indian market now," Oppenheimer said.
"It illustrates the immediate uncertainty and concern felt once somebody says that they aren't prepared to be part of the single channel marketing," he said.
Claiming that the word cartel had a sinster ring to it, and asking rather that the CSO be referred to as a producers' co-operative, Oppenheimer said De Beers recent half year results were proof that its current structure remained successful.
"There is a feeling that the cartel is a dinosaur in the world. Turning to our pretty satisfactory results recently, we were very pleased and so there is a bit of life in the old dinosaur yet," Oppenheimer said.
De Beers posted attributable earnings for the half-year ended June 30 of $482 million compared to $407 million.
NOTE - Cleanup Corp is a comprehensive domestic products manufacturer.
U.S. debt futures finished mixed, with the short end settling near the day's highs, while the long end wrapped up a light, lackluster session on the defensive, traders and analysts said.
However, both U.S. T-bond and Eurodollar futures are seen inching up slightly in the near term after the Federal Open Market Committee (FOMC) concluded its much-awaited meeting without raising rates.
Several traders said one firm sold 7,000 September bond contracts after the FOMC announcement, which helped pressure the contract through the day's previous low of 110-27/32.
"They just loaded up the pit with supply," one floor source said.
The contract traded inside Monday's range of 111-13/32 to 110-24/32 for most of the day, and most contracts closed only 01/32 lower.
"Between now and then, there is not much to change things," said John Nyhoff, vice president and economist of Mitsubishi Financial Futures.
Nyhoff expects Eurodollars to rise slightly, with December climbing to the 94.50 area.
Carver Federal Savings Bank's board of directors said on Tuesday that it is committed to remaining an independent bank.
The announcement comes several months after the board approved a reorganization plan, making it a wholly owned subsidiary of a savings association holding company.
"Carver is committed to remaining an independent urban community development bank which is dedicated to meeting the financial needs of the communities it serves, increasing profitability and enhancing shareholder value," Carver President and Chief Executive Thomas Clark (Corrects name of President from Thomas Carver) said.
These are the leading stories in the Kenyan press on Tuesday. Reuters has not verified these stories and does not vouch for their accuracy.
- Opposition FORD-Kenya (Forum for the Restoration of Democracy) will institute private criminal prosecutions against 30 individuals and firms named in the Public Investment Committee report in connection with irregular financial deals.
- A report by USAID's Regional Economic Development Service says Wajir, Mandera and Isiolo districts in the North Eastern Province of Kenya face a serious food shortage because of the failure of long rains between march and July.
- The new Kenneth Matiba and Raila Odinga alliance comes under heavy criticim from FORD-Kenya chairman Kijana Wamalwa's group, which terms it as just another plot to ruin the National Opposition Alliance.
- The chairman of the Kenya Dairy Board Andrew Kiptoon says the proposed Kenya Dairy Development Policy is not meant to dismember the giant Kenya Cooperative Creameries.
- Kikuyu opposition member of parliament Paul Muite has challenged ruling Kenya African National Union leaders to tell the public why they are opposed to consitutional reforms.
Treasurer Peter Costello, who brought down Australia's 1996/97 budget on Tuesday, said he would like an interest rate cut by the end of calendar 1996.
"I'd like that to be an outcome and I am going to do the best to make sure we are going to get it," Costello told Australian Broadcasting Corporation television.
"If we can get our budget, intact, through the Senate, if we can get that low inflation locked in, then I think we can set up the chances for an easing in monetary policy," Costello said.
"A good budget passed through the Senate, fiscal consolidation, we can set the conditions (for another rate cut)," Costello said.
The Reserve Bank of Australia cut official cash rates to 7.00 percent from 7.50 percent on July 31.
Acer Computer International (ACI) president William Lu said on Tuesday he expected computer industry growth by year-end to be in the "low teens" against analysts' projections of 17-19 percent.
Speaking at a news conference on ACI's interim results, Lu said he was doubtful growth would be as high as 17-19 percent. "I expect the low teens," he said.
ACI reported a 14.4 percent rise in net profit to Singapore $14.7 million for first-half ended June 30 1996.
Turnover rose to S$511.0 million againt $402.7 million for the corresponding period last year.
"The improved turnover was attributed to across-the- board improvements in many ACI territories, particularly in the Asian region, including Singapore, Malaysia, Hong Kong and India and South Africa," ACI said in a statement.
"Earnings also remained satisfactory despite increased competition, helped by strong economic recovery in the Latin American markets," it said.
Lu said ACI planned to maintained a healthy profit margin in the highly competitive computer market by keeping ahead of competition via "speedy product launches".
Lu was unfazed by competition from smaller computer companies which have spawned throughout the Asia-Pacific region, specifically in its manufacturing sites of Singapore, Hong Kong and Taiwan.
"These companies are doing short-term businesses. If the industry changes, they will give up. Personally I regard them as a short-term phenomenon," Lu said.
Asia Pacific contributed about 67 percent of the company's total interim revenue, he added.
German money supply growth, the German central bank's main policy guide, slowed to an annualised 8.6 percent in July from 9.6 percent in June, the Bundesbank said on Tuesday.
The German share market showed little reaction to the figure. In the bond market, where traders had become increasingly optimistic that the figure would come in below forecast, bund futures eased marginally.
But analysts generally warmed to the figure, saying it reinforced their expectations that the Bundesbank's main money market rate, the repo rate, could be eased soon, possibly as early as this week's Bundesbank council meeting.
Uwe Angenendt, economist at BHF-Bank in Frankfurt, said in an initial reaction: "Monetary expansion has slowed considerably. This is a very good sign for the Bundesbank on Thursday. I expect a repo rate cut of 10 to 20 basis points."
The Russian Security Council said on Tuesday that it doubted the authenticity of President Boris Yeltsin's latest orders on Chechnya.
"The contents of the documents give solid grounds to doubt that the president of Russia took a direct part in finalising the text of the order," said a statement by the policy-making Security Council.
Yeltsin has ordered Alexander Lebed, the secretary of the Security Council and his personal representative in Chechnya, to restore Russian control over the regional capital Grozny, much of which was seized by separatist rebels on August 6.
Yeltsin's press secretary Sergei Yastrzhembsky said on Monday that the Kremlin leader had issued the order on Sunday.
But the Security Council's statement argued that Lebed was not aware of the preparation of the orders -- which violated normal procedures.
The statement also said Yeltsin's orders were issued with a facsimile of the president's signature rather than signed by the president in person.
"The secretary of the Security Council assumes that no one is allowed to manipulate on behalf of the President and insists on explanations from the appropriate officials," it said.
It said an attempt to carry out the order on Chechnya would ruin peace efforts undertaken by Lebed and wreck a ceasefire deal he agreed with the separatist leaders.
"This would mean in fact the beginning of a large-scale military operation involving aviation and artillery, which would naturally lead to heavy losses among federal troops, massive deaths among the civilian population...and a justified burst of resentment in the country," the statement said.
Lebed and rebel leaders agreed last week to arrange a truce to allow peace negotiations to resume in a region wracked by conflict which has cost tens of thousands of lives in 20 months.
The truce had been generally observed by both sides despite the lack of a clear deal between the sides and mutual recriminations over ceasefire violations.
On Monday Russia's top commander in Chechnya, Konstantin Pulikovsky, gave the rebels 48 hours to leave Grozny or face bombing.
Yeltsin, 65, has disappeared from the public eye since late June, except for a brief appearance at his inauguration on August 9, but his aides say his health is all right despite exhaustion caused by his vigorous re-election campaign.
Yastrzhembsky said on Tuesday that Yeltsin had begun a two-day break in northwestern Russia, denying rumours that the Kremlin leader was ill.
He said Yeltsin and Prime Minister Viktor Chernomyrdin were continuing to work on the formation of the new Russian government, most of which was announced last week.
NOTE: Excluding the restructuring charge of $0.94/shr, the company would have reported a Q4 1996 net profit of $0.02/shr.
Former white president F.W. de Klerk appears before South Africa's "truth commission" on Wednesday as political parties strive to extract what propaganda value they can from the country's history of race war.
De Klerk, who will speak for the National Party that introduced apartheid in 1948, has said party leaders will accept overall responsibility for "the many things that went wrong" with the policy.
But he is likely to shift most of the blame onto his predecessors and cite the fact that barely a year after he took office he began in 1990 to dismantle apartheid -- freeing African National Congress leader Nelson Mandela as one of his first steps.
He plans to start his presentation in 1652, the year the first white settlers arrived in the Cape, giving him an opportunity to comment that British colonialists were among the first to enforce racial discrimination in South Africa.
The Truth and Reconciliation Commission is devoting all week to hearing from political parties how they saw the context of their actions during the apartheid era.
The commission, chaired by Archbishop Desmond Tutu, is charged with establishing as full a picture as possible of South Africa's decades of racial hostility during which millions of blacks were forced to move to "homelands", hundreds of people were killed by police or guerrillas and countless more were tortured or jailed for their beliefs.
Political parties which have made submissions so far include the right-wing Freedom Front and the radical black Pan Africanist Congress (PAC), both of which tried to score political points.
The PAC, which won less than two percent of the vote in South Africa's first all-race election in 1994, sought to portray itself on Tuesday as a more important player in the liberation struggle than the ANC.
Freedom Front leader General Constand Viljoen, a former defence force chief, acknowledged on Monday that Afrikaners had "invited" violent revolution by their actions but said their brutality in trying to crush it was provoked in part by their opposition to communism.
ANC sources said Mandela's party, due to make its submission on Thursday, would object to any attempt to equate the morality of enforcing apartheid with that of resisting it.
Nikko Research Center Ltd has assigned Citizen Watch Co Ltd a "2" rating, Nikko brokers said on Wednesday.
In its three-grade rating system, the research institute assigns a "2" rating to issues whose values it sees moving within 10 percentage points in either direction of the key 225-share Nikkei average over the next six months.
NOTE - Create Medic Co Ltd specialises in the manufacturing of disposable medical supplies.
Shareholders of Swiss temporary employment firm Adia on Tuesday approved a merger with Ecco of France that will create one of the world's biggest personnel companies.
The new firm, Adecco SA, will rival the world's biggest personnel firm, Manpower Inc. of the United States, although it will have only a small share of the U.S. market.
Shareholders voted in favour of the move at a special meeting by approving a capital increase for Adia. The capital increase is intended to fulfil an Adia offer of share swaps or cash for Ecco shares, making way for Adia capital to become the stock of the new company.
Adecco shares will be listed on the Swiss Exchange and as American Depositary Receipts on the U.S. Nasdaq market. Adecco shares will also be listed in Paris in place of Ecco.
Adia said Adecco's market share will be 27 percent in France, 21 percent in Australia, 26 percent in Switzerland, 27 percent in Spain, and 4 percent in the United States.
NOTE - Totoku Electric Co Ltd makes electronic machinery and parts.
For the week of Aug. 19, here are some of the top stories reported in major U.S. technology trade publications.
PC WEEK - Three of the biggest storage managment vendors are preparing major rollouts this fall of new products and technologies to help information systems administrators centrally backup and manage growing stores of enterprise data, PC Week reported in the August 19 issue.
Seagate Technology will ship next week ExecView 2.01, to manage backup and storage management lines purchased by Seagate and Cheyenne Software will announce a version of its ARCserve 6 that backs up open files.
Microsoft Corp has made a long jump to rival that of Carl Lewis with its Internet Explorer 3.0, leaping ahead of Netscape's Navigator 3.0 in several areas, PC Week Labs reported, but Netscape still has a size and speed advantage over Internet Explorer.
INFOWORLD - Intel Corp has started developing a common data security architecture designed to integrate security software, operating systems and third party applications, into its microprocessor architecture sometime next year, Infoworld reported in the August 19 issue.
Microsoft and two partners will detail a strategy designed to provide high-speed access to mainframe data from a Web browser. One partner, Polaris Communications, will sell the solution and it is expected to be available in mid-September.
INFORMATION WEEK - Object-relational databases have emerged as the key battleground of the $6 billion database market, Information Week reports in its Aug. 19 cover story.
Oracle Corp, Informix Corp and International Business Machines Corp are vying for the lead.
IBM is preparing to ship the most powerful versions yet of its System/390 servers, capable of handling 44 million instructions per second, Information Week reports.
COMPUTER RESELLER NEWS - One year after Netscape Communications Corp's initial public offering, the company is feeling the heat from Microsoft Corp as the software giant has turned its guns on the Internet powerhouse.
Netscape and Microsoft are battling over Web-based multimedia messaging, the latest skirmish in the war for Internet-dominance, Computer Reseller News reported August 19.
Major distributors are pressing major PC vendors to shift more final assembly of PCs to the distribution channel and are moving forward with plans to manufacture their own systems in an effort to ward off chronic product shortages, CRN reported.
COMPUTERWORLD - Basic problems with Microsoft Corp's new World Wide Web browser, Internet Explorer 3.0, have frustrated many early users, Computerworld reported in the August 19 issue.
Internet users could face a new problem, hostile Active X Web components on the World Wide Web, as Microsoft has acknowledged that it is scrambling to tighten security for its Active X technology.
A debate over network computer devices to access the Internet increased at the Data Warehouse WOrld conference, when a database analyst said that the Internet will push the network computers into popularity and onto desktops, Computerworld reported in the August 19 issue.
ELECTRONIC ENGINEERING TIMES - New attempts to solve a conundrum of multimedia computing will headline the eighth Hot Chips conference in Palo Alto, Calif., this week. Vendors will show an array of architectures for combined audio, video, 3D and communications processing, plus the first detailed description of Microsoft's Talisman media chip architecture, EE Times reported in the August 19 issue.
VIScorp, a set-top box maker based in Chicago, is getting the rights to Amiga, once the property of the now-defunct PC pioneer Commodore. VISCorp is promising improved versions of the aging but still-respected platform that had one of the biggest cults in the computer industry.
ELECTRONIC BUYERS' NEWS -  Intel Corp will pull the plug in early 1997 of its Pentium chip-set development as part of its effort to push its low-end Pentium Pro processor into the mainstream market, Electronic Buyers News reported in the August 19 issue.
DRAM prices continue on their downward path as suppliers scramble to cut their losses and boost profit margins in what looks like a long-term supply glut, said EBN's Barometer.
NYMEX Henry Hub natgas futures ended down sharply Tuesday in a lackluster session, as longs rushed to liquidate amid perceptions a storm in the Caribbean would not threaten U.S. Gulf gas production, sources said.
September tumbled 13.4 cents to close near the day's low at $2.053 per million British thermal units. Oct settled 13 cents lower at $2.124. Others ended down by one to 10.5 cents.
But forecasters still expected Dolly to approach the Texas-Mexico border, and some traders remained concerned that a slight turn to the north could put offshore Texas platforms in jeopardy.
Hurricane Dolly slammed into Mexico's Yucatan peninsula Tuesday afternoon with 75 mph winds, moving west-northwest at 13 mph. At 1400 EDT, the center was located at 19.3 degrees north and 87.9 degrees west.
Cash prices at the U.S. Gulf Coast firmed slightly Tuesday to about the $2.10 area, still almost 20 cents below August indices. Midcon pipes scored similar gains to the low-$1.90s, about 20 cents under August 1 levels.
The 12-month strip tumbled 6.2 cents to $2.133. NYMEX said 33,849 Henry Hub contracts traded, up from Monday's revised tally of 24,317.
NYMEX September Henry Hub natgas futures expire Monday, August 26.
NYMEX September Permian natgas closed four cents lower at $1.82, while deferreds settled down by 3.5 cents but again were untraded. NYMEX said 30 Permian contracts traded, down from Monday's total of 85.
NYMEX September Permian natgas futures expire Wednesday August 28.
On the KCBT, September finished down by seven cents at $1.88, while deferreds ended one to six cents lower. The East/West spread narrowed by 6.4 cents to 17.3 cents (NYMEX premium).
KCBT September natgas futures expire Tuesday, August 27.
NYMEX Henry Hub natgas futures remained lower in lackluster late trade Tuesday, still undermined by long liquidation as fears faded that a hurricane in the Caribbean would trim gas output, sources said.
At 1420 EDT, September skidded 10.7 cents to $2.08 per million British thermal units after hitting $2.215 on ACCESS. October was 9.4 cents lower at $2.16. Others also were down.
Dolly was upgraded to a hurricane midday Tuesday just before reaching land on Mexico's Yucatan peninsula. At 1200 EDT, the center was located at 19.3 degrees north and 87.6 degrees west, or on the Yucatan coast near Punta Herrero. The storm, packing minimal hurricane winds of 75 mph, was moving west-northwest at 13 mph. Dolly was expected to approach the Texas-Mexico border on Thursday.
Cash prices at the U.S. Gulf Coast firmed slightly Tuesday to about the $2.10 area, with Midcon pipes scoring similar gains to the low-$1.90s.
NYMEX said 11,724 Henry Hub contracts traded at 1125 EDT. Open interest on August 19 rose 1,142 contracts to 142,536. NYMEX September Henry Hub natgas futures expire Monday, August 26.
NYMEX September Permian natgas slipped four cents to $1.82, while deferreds were still untraded at 1420 EDT.
NYMEX September Permian natgas futures expire Wednesday August 28.
On the KCBT, September was still down by three cents at $1.92, while deferreds were one to two cents lower. The East/West spread narrowed by 7.7 cents to 16 cents (NYMEX premium).
KCBT September natgas futures expire Tuesday, August 27.
Note - Figures are in billions of crowns. Average market expectations had been for a June surplus of 7.3 billion crowns.
The U.S. Agriculture Department said it will donate up to an additional 15,000 tonnes of wheat to Tajikistan under USDA's Food for Progress program.
USDA said an existing $6 million agreement will be increased by $5 million for the purchase of wheat and related transportation costs. It said the wheat will be sold to help support Tajikistan's economic reforms.
The supply period for the donation is fiscal 1996.
Youngsters Richie Humphreys and Andy Booth showed Leeds United's old men the way to goal to give Sheffield Wednesday a 2-0 away win and their second straight English premier league victory of the new season on Tuesday.
Humphreys, 18, marked only his second start for his home town club by netting in the 2-1 win over Aston Villa on Saturday.
On Tuesday, at a rain-sodden Elland Road it was the teenager's sweetly-struck 14th-minute effort that gave David Pleat's side the edge in the battle for Yorkshire pride and put the Wednesday on top of the table.
Lee Bowyer, one of five Leeds men making their home debuts, gave the ball away to Regi Blinker and, although the Dutchman's shot was blocked, it fell perfectly for Humphreys to fire left-footed across and past Nigel Martyn.
Blinker created the injury-time second that allowed 23-year-old Booth to stride through and open his premier league account after his 2.65 million pounds ($4.1 million) move from Huddersfield.
But Leeds -- with Ian Rush and on-loan Mark Hateley comprising a 68-year-old strike pairing -- must have been wondering how they had come away with nothing.
Rush suffered twice on his 700th domestic appearance, and with fellow new boys Bowyer and Lee Sharpe also left holding their heads, Leeds had reason for feeling hard done by.
In division one, Danish international Per Frandsen's stunning goal for Bolton toppled title favourites Manchester City 1-0 at Burnden Park.
Ecuador's state telephone company Emetel may privatized early next year, the firm's new president Manuel Zhindon said.
International consultants have priced the company's assets at $800 million, "but that doesn't mean it will be sold for that amount. In the auction we'll accept the best offer, which may be five or six times higher," Zhindon told reporters.
Emetel will be split up into two companies for privatization and each will offer a 35 percent stake to private operators, according to official sources.
Workers will have a right to purchase up to 10 percent of the shares and the government will keep a 55 percent stake.
Ecuador has 800,000 telephone lines or seven per 100 people, one of the lowest line densities in Latin America.
"Even right now with apparently very low rates it is great business in telecommunications. There are significant gains to be made with the current rate system," Zhindn said.
He admitted that international rates, averaging $2.80 per minute, are steep but subsidize the domestic rate of $0.10.
Business sources said Telefnica de Espaa has shown interest in the privatization. Telefnica already operates in Argentina, Chile, Colombia, Puerto Rico, Per and Venezuela.
Dutch shares closed near the day's highs on Tuesday as the market gleaned confidence from German M3 data and expectations of positive corporate news.
The AEX index closed up 4.87 points at 565.72, just off the day's high of 565.89.
Dealers said the index may push to its all-time high around 572 points towards the end of the week, where it would likely meet solid resistance and some profit taking.
But cash piles and evidence of investors buying on dips indicate the downside potential may be limited, dealers said.
Dealers said the slowdown in German July M3 money supply growth to 8.6 percent was positive for the market, keeping expectations of a repo rate cut alive.
Analysts said Buba may trim the repo by up to 10 basis points on Thursday, but that the market impact may not be great.
The market was firmly focused on the outcome of the U.S. FOMC meeting, due around 1815 GMT, although analysts were united in expecting no rate change.
The major corporate news was confined to first half results at Pakhoed and Van Ommeren.
Pakhoed shares steamed five percent higher after an initial fall as investors digested an unexpectedly low 4.6 million guilder first half net.
The firm also announced a 54.3 million guilder extraordinary charge. The stock closed up 1.70 guilders at 46.30, off the day's high of 47.00 guilders.
Van Ommeren closed up 0.40 guilders at 65.50 after reporting H1 net of 44.7 million guilders, in line with expectations.
Nutricia shares powered to a new year high of 196 guilders during the day before dropping back to close up 2.40 guilders at 194.40. The company is to report first half results on Thursday.
"The figures will have to be extremely good to justify these prices," one dealer said, adding there may be some profit taking on the results.
Royal Dutch shares rose 2.40 guilders to 257.50 after a number of brokers reiterated buy recommendations on Shell Transport stock.
Nedlloyd was due to report on Wednesday with analysts expecting shipping operations to keep the group in the red. The stock closed up 0.50 guilders at 35.00.
Consolidated Edison Co of New York Inc (Con-Ed) said Tuesday its 975 megawatt (MW) Indian Point 2 nuclear power plant will likely be back on line later today.
"It should be back sometime this afternoon or this evening," said company spokeswoman Joan Burger.
She said the cause of the outage was still unclear but that necessary repairs to the unit were minimal.
"We're still investigating, but we've identified a small piece of electrical equipment which may have caused the unit to trip off line," she said.
The Indian Point facility is about 50 miles north of New York City along the Hudson River.
Two years on from the first democratic elections, Nelson Mandela's African National Congress (ANC) is attempting an economic policy U-turn, bringing it into conflict with old allies on the Left.
Gone is the language of the liberation struggle, with its talk of redistribution and nationalisation. Instead, the ANC is singing the benefits of budget cuts and privatisation.
Critics talk of a Thatcherite sell-out.
But ANC pragmatists argue South Africa has no choice if it wants to boost economic growth and cut crippling unemployment afflicting one third of the workforce.
Finance Minister Trevor Manuel laid down the new economic gospel in June -- and insists he will not be blown off course.
"We've got to concentrate on ensuring that we can implement a programme that will evolve a different kind of economy in this country, one that absorbs labour, creates employment, deals with these issues differently," he said earlier this month.
His macroeconomic strategy sets clear targets for the next five years. The aim is to double economic growth to six percent and create 400,000 new jobs a year by the year 2000, while cutting the budget deficit from more than five percent of GDP this year to four percent next and three percent in 1999.
But trade union leaders have condemned the policy, which runs counter to their own demands for greater state involvement.
"There is no way the government will succeed in simply pushing its framework down our throats," said Zwelinzima Vavi, assistant general secretary of the Congress of South African Trade Unions (Cosatu).
"It is the entire framework which we wish to discuss. We are not simply seeking the amendment of minor details here and there, but a complete reassessment of their view of the role of the state in stimulating reconstruction and development."
Cosatu is a key partner, together with the South African Communist Party, in the triple alliance which swept Mandela to office -- and its tough words have triggered fears of a damaging clash.
The big showdown with the unions could well come over privatisation.
"Privatisation is the fundamental policy of the ANC and it is going to be implemented."
The prize for the government is great. Economists estimate it could, in theory, raise as much as 100 billion rand ($22 billion) from selling state concerns -- enough to cut government debt by a third.
It is already looking for a foreign partner to take a 25-30 percent chunk of telecommunications group Telkom, and recently appointed Hong Kong and Shanghai Bank to advise on other privatisation options.
Other candidates include South African Airways, the state airports company, government oil companies, a forestry business -- and possibly electricity generator Eskom.
The plans to sell the family silver have set alarm bells ringing among union members, who fear job cuts, triggering protest marches and strikes. Together with a rash of industrial action in the mines in recent months, analysts say this has only underscored South Africa's reputation for labour unrest.
Cosatu denies it has a blanket opposition to privatisation, but insists government must keep control of essential services.
"We must look at what are the proposals on the table. Are those proposals saying the government must move out of the provision of the basic services and out of the productive sector? If that is the proposal, we will reject it," said general secretary Sam Shilowa.
Big business, meanwhile, formerly at odds with the ANC, suddenly finds itself on the same side.
Trevor Manuel and his macroeconomic strategy are the toast of Johannesburg board rooms. Instead of worrying about government policy, business leaders' concern nowadays is rather whether government has the political clout to implement it.
"If (the ANC's) political allies are seen to be delaying or in any way undermining what the government has committed itself to in terms of its economic programme, then quite clearly there will be consequences," said South African Chamber of Business director general Raymond Parsons.
"Foreign markets and foreign investors, as well as South African investors, are watching the implementation of the macroeconomic strategy with great intensity."
Foreign investment is crucial to the new economic strategy.
Without it, South Africa will not build the new industry needed to drive growth, create jobs and give the unemployed a viable alternative to a life of crime.
So far, foreign firms have been slow to put their money into South African bricks and mortar.
And the recent pummelling of the rand on the foreign exchange markets suggests overseas investors still need to be persuaded that government will deliver on its economic promises.
Swedish mining, metals and engineering group Trelleborg said Tuesday its earnings dropped sharply in the first half of the year as metals prices fell and the Swedish crown strengthened against other currencies.
The group's net profits fell to  657 million crowns ($99 million) in the first half of 1996, a sharp drop from the 954 million crowns ($144 million) reported for the same 1995 period.
Operating income for the period dipped to 10.62 billion crowns ($1.6 billion) from 11.10 billion ($1.67 billion).
"The weaker economy, particularly on European markets, has led to weaker prices and lower volumes," Trelleborg said.
The mining and metals unit reported virtually unchanged sales for the period at 4.28 billion crowns ($647.4 million), but operating profits dipped to 296 million crowns ($44 million) from 317 million ($47 million), a drop the company said was due to the weaker economy.
However, it noted tht hedging had rendered the business virtually immune to disadvantageous moves in currencies and metals prices over the period.
The operating profit of Trelleborg's distribution division, the second -argest in the group, was more than halved to 141 million crowns ($21 million).
Mitsubishi Motors Corp said on Wednesday that it was planning joint projects with Malaysia and China to produce car engines in China from 1998.
Cargo surveyor, Societe Generale de Surveillance (SGS) Malaysia Sdn Bhd said on Tuesday it estimated Malaysia's palm oil exports for August 1-20 at 398,288 tonnes compared with 391,644 tonnes for July 1-20.
Pakistan was the top buyer during the period, taking 89,920 tonnes followed by India which bought 83,840 tonnes, China 27,975 tonnes and Japan 23,135 tonnes.
Countries in the European Union bought 29,840 tonnes while Middle East countries took 21,500 tonnes.
Shoppers are loading up this year on perennial back-to-school favourites such as jeans, shirts and sneakers, with parents spending an average of 12 percent more for clothing and other supplies.
"It's sort of funny because it really hasn't changed a lot from years ago, with jeans, shirts and pants and things like that being the basics of what people are looking for," said Andrea Kent, director of the Retail Marketing Group for American Express Travel Related Services Inc.
Overall, back-to-school spending will rise a projected 12 percent to an average of $363 per child, American Express said in its second annual survey of 1,000 shoppers.
The spending increase was caused by an emphasis on brand-name goods that typically cost more, lower retailer inventories which reduce the amount of discounted, sale merchandise, and higher consumer confidence, American Express said.
It added that 18 percent of parents say they planned to spend $500 or more per child on back-to-school items such as clothing, supplies, textbooks and electronics.
Across the board, clothing accounts for the highest portion of the back-to-school budget. The percentage is highest for elementary students, at 66 percent of the budget, and high school students, at 63 percent. For college students, clothing accounts for 33 percent of the budget, followed closely behind by textbooks at 25 percent.
"College students have a much greater demand for other items... Textbooks is a very high expense for college students, accounting for 25 percent of their back-to-school budget," Kent said.
Curiously, the American Express survey found that college boys are dramatically more style-conscious than college girls, a finding that was contrary to last year's results.
Among the retailers, department stores are battling speciality shops for back-to-school sales, with discount department stores getting a large portion of the sales.
Back-to-school -- the second largest selling season for retailers -- has taken on even more importance since the all-important holiday season between Thanksgiving and Christmas is five days shorter this year.
"The department stores are back with a bang... They are fighting for the purse, hearts and minds of the mall-brats, and they are flexing their fashion muscles," said Alan Millstein, president of Fashion Network Inc., a New York-based retail consultant.
The American Express survey showed discount department stores are capturing 35 percent of sales, followed by malls at 29 percent and department stores at 26 percent. Other retail locations, such as factory outlets and office supply stores, accounted for 10 percent.
The decision of where to shop is mostly left up to parents, the survey revealed, while the children had the most influence over what to buy.
"If you let your kids pick out what ... to buy, they are more likely to want to wear it," Kent said. "Back when I was a kid, my mom took me shopping and she picked out what she liked for me."
What kids are picking out are jeans, with the Levi Strauss & Co.'s Levi brand being the most popular, Kent added.
Jeans are also an important draw for department stores trying to lure high school and college students, with offerings that include designer jeans from Tommy Hilfiger, Ralph Lauren Polo and Calvin Klein.
Millstein added that low-slung, hip-hugging jeans with bell bottoms are big sellers.
"Anything that has a ... retro look of the peace march is back in fashion and selling," Millstein said.
Among the hot-selling items at Target, the discount department store chain owned by Dayton Hudson Corp., are T-shirts and accessories, such as clay rings and necklaces, that are reminiscent of the 1970s, according to Dayton Hudson spokeswoman Susan Eich.
Other popular items include jumper's for girls, backpacks, clogs and "anything with zippers," Eich added.
Tenneco did not elaborate on the terms of the acquisition of the company, which it described as the southern country's second largest exhaust manufacturer.
It said it was the first time that its Walker Manufacturing unit had entered the South American market. Tenneco Automotive already operates in Brazil through its Monroe ride control division, however.
Tenneco said Minuzzi, which provides exhaust products for Volkswagen, Daimler-Benz AG and General Motors, would provide just-in-time products to Ford for its 1997 Escort. The Buenos Aires plant would operate under the Walker Argentina name, it added.
Tenneco said it had also begun exhaust manufacturing at its Monroe do Brasil ride control facility in Mogi Mirim, Brazil.
It said the company, known as Walker Exhaust Systems do Brasil, would supply catalytic converters and exhaust systems for the Volkswagen AB9 and CS5 platforms.
Tenneco said it expected to achieve a 200 percent growth in combined Brazil and Argentina revenues by 2000.
A group of 56 Chinese writers, former officials and academics has petitioned Communist Party chief Jiang Zemin to save cultural relics from the gigantic Three Gorges dam which would flood huge tracts of land.
Ancient tombs and temples were threatened by a dearth of government funds and official under-reporting of those relics that warranted saving, according to the letter, a copy of which was made available to Reuters on Tuesday.
"The hearts of relic protection departments are like burning fire with 10,000 worries and misgivings," it said of the lack of funds.
About 130 historical sites, some of them dating to the Stone Age, could be flooded as soon as next year.
The sites include Qing dynasty (1644-1911) temples, an entire street from the Ming Dynasty (1368-1644) and stone carvings from the Han Dynasty (206 BC-AD 220).
Relocation of many relics had been delayed due to lack of funds, the letter said, adding that the damage would worsen unless government funds for relocation were provided.
The letter dated August 8 was signed by prominent female writer Bing Xin, former ambassador to the United States Chai Zemin and former minister of culture Wang Meng.
Others include Su Bingqi, president of the Archaeological Society, and Yu Weichao, curator of the Museum of Chinese History who is in charge of relocating relics.
Archaeologists had designated 829 buried relics near a reservoir under construction as needing protection. The sites covered a total area of more than 20 million square metres (215 million square ft), but the government has agreed to protect one tenth of the area due to a lack of funds, it said.
Some ancient tombs and relics have already disappeared under the onslaught of bulldozers, the letter said.
Construction of the controversial dam was expected to submerge 632 square km (244 square miles) of land in central China's Hubei province and the southwestern province of Sichuan.
It would force the relocation of 840,000 people from up to 200 villages and towns, according to 1991-92 estimates.
Environmentalists have described the project as a potential ecological disaster, leading to the destruction of a scenic mountain region and the extinction of endangered species.
The Three Gorges dam -- the world's biggest water control project --  was expected to ease seasonal flooding by creating a massive reservoir in Hubei to store waters from rains.
The 6,000-km (3,500-mile) Yangtze river -- China's longest -- and its tributaries have triggered floods throughout much of China's history.
The project, expected to cost $30 billion by its completion in 2009, would also help ease China's crippling shortage of electric power.
NOTE - Value date 22/08, maturity date 14/08/97.
Togo's President Gnassingbe Eyadema on Tuesday named a technocrat prime minister from among his supporters after his party won three more parliament seats in by-elections earlier this month.
A presidential decree announced the appointment of Kwassi Klutse, minister of planning and regional development in the outgoing government.
Edem Kodjo, leader of the Togolese Union for Democracy (UTD), resigned from the prime minister's post on Monday, saying he had to take account of the change in the balance of power.
His party had governed in an increasingly uneasy alliance with Eyadema's Togolese People's Rally (RPT) since parliamentary elections in 1994.
An economist by training, Klutse, 51, was director-general of the planning ministry from 1988 until his appointment as minister in November 1995.
According to the constitution, the prime minister must come from within the parliamentary majority. The RPT, in coalition with allied parties, now has an absolute majority after winning three seats in the 81-seat parliament in by-elections this month.
Eyadema's party won two seats outright on August 4 and one in a runoff on Sunday. The main opposition Action Committee for Renewal (CAR) boycotted all three by-elections.
Before the by-elections Eyadema's RPT had 35 seats of its own, plus two from its allies in the Union for Justice and Democracy. It also had the support of former premier Joseph Kokou Koffigoh and two independents who had quit the UTD and CAR.
If confirmed by the supreme court, Sunday's result will leave the RPT with 38 seats of its own, plus its five allies, giving Eyadema a comfortable majority.
Eyadema, an army general, seized power in 1967 and was elected in 1993 in polls boycotted by the UTD and CAR.
The two parties formed an opposition alliance to contest the 1994 parliamentary elections and had won a majority until the Supreme Court annulled three seats citing irregularities.
That alliance collapsed after Kodjo accepted the post of prime minister.
Relations between Eyadema and Kodjo had been strained in recent months. Kodjo spoke publicly of differences and Eyadema's supporters openly criticised the prime minister.
Kodjo told reporters on Tuesday the CAR's refusal to cooperate with parliament had made it difficult to govern. The party boycotted parliament for several months in 1994 and 1995.
NOTE - Zenchiku Co Ltd is a leading meat trading company.
The money markets could force a tightening in bill rates again at tomorrow's auction, dealers and analysts said.
At the last auction on August 7 the Treasury raised the average one-year bill yield to 7.136 percent from 7.056 percent in order to attract extra financing and traders said the rate could emerge at up to 7.15 percent this time.
Market sources said they had seen signs the Treasury was willing to pay higher yields and this would encourage bidders at the auction to raise their offers to force the yield higher.
"At the last auction the Treasury gave a very clear signal that it was prepared to raise rates," a dealer said.
"It needs financing, the bills are very useful and the market's bids will set the price," another trader said.
One year bills were trading at around 7.13/15 percent in the grey market this morning.
"Depending on the volume and aggressiveness of the bids, I think the Treasury could raise the rate slightly (from last time's 7.136 percent)," another trader said.
Despite the holiday season dampening activity, the volume of bids should be slightly higher than last time's 289 billion pesetas.
"There are 420 billion pesetas of bills maturing and demand will probably be higher than last time," the trader added.
Spanish interest rates in general are still expected to fall between now and the end of the year. Economists say the Bank of Spain can trim its key money market rate, now 7.25 percent, by between a quarter and three quarters of a point.
Financial Security Assurance said it has qualified for bond insurance the following 11 municipal issues scheduled for competitive sale today.
--Riley Elem. S.D. Corp., Ind., $11.720 million first mortgage revenue bonds.
--Columbus, Miss., $1.950 million spec. assess. bonds.
--Gulfport, Miss., $8.5 million public improvement general obligation bonds.
--Mississippi State, Miss., $60.510 million (tax) GOs.
--Hawthorne, N.J., $5.933 million GO improvement bonds.
--Salem County, N.J., $4.555 million GOs.
--Gloversville City SD, N.Y., $7.55 million school district bonds.
--Fort Mill S.D. No. 4, S.C., $24 million GOs.
--DeSoto, Texas, $6.380 million GOs.
--Lufkin, Texas, $3.650 million GOs.
--Taylor County, Texas, $7.940 million GOs.
Britain's largest mortgage lender Halifax Building Society said on Tuesday it was considering what to do with its excess capital, after it has completed its stock market flotation planned for June 1997.
Group finance director Roger Boyes told reporters at the society's interim results briefing the Halifax had a tier 1 capital ratio of 14.4 percent.
That would give the society a "reasonably substantial" surplus of capital after its flotation, he said.
He said options to be looked at included acquisitions, special or enhanced dividends and a share buy-back.
"It's quite wrong to say that Halifax is not aware of all the options," he said when it was suggested the society would be most likely to seek acquisitions.
Boyes said Halifax would also look at the best balance between its tier 1 and tier 2 capital, which he said was currently weighted 90 percent to 10.
He said this was expensive, hinting at further issurance of the subordinated debt, which makes up tier 2 capital.
Halifax said it issued 775 million stg of subordinated debt in recent months.
A.G. Edwards & Sons, Inc.
Roosevelt & Cross, Inc.
Advest, Inc.
Smith Barney Inc.
Dean Witter Reynolds Inc.
Mining house RGC Ltd said on Tuesday that it had appointed two new directors, Grahame Campbell and Peter Mason, effective immediately.
RGC said Campbell, an engineer, is vice president of the Association of Consulting Engineers (Australia), deputy chairman of engineering firm CMPS and F Pty Ltd and a director of AWA Ltd and Anaconda Nickel NL.
Mason is presently executive chairman of Schroders Australia Ltd and a director of Mayne Nickless Ltd, RGC said.
The Chicago Board of Trade reported the following stocks of corn in Chicago, deliverable against CBOT futures. (in 000's bu).
K&G MEN'S CENTER, INC.
Japan's index of coincident indicators rose above the key 50 mark in June for the first time since February because industrial output-related indicators were slightly stronger than three months ago, an Economic Planning Agency official told reporters on Tuesday.
The index of coincident indicators, which measures current economic conditions, stood at 55.0 in June against 30.0 in May.
Coincident and leading indicator indices are compiled by comparing data with a set of figures from three months earlier.
Asked if the coincident index would stay above the 50 mark in July, the official said it was difficult to forecast and that much depended on July industrial production figures.
"If industrial output rises 4.2 percent then conditions will not be so severe," he said.
The Ministry of International and Industry has forecast a month-on-month rise of 4.2 percent in output for July.
Approval of Eli Lilly & Co's new anti-schizophrenia drug, Zyprexa, is expected to come soon from the U.S. Food and Drug Administration, analysts said.
Marketing clearance for the drug, known generically as olanzapine, would put Lilly in the front of a parade of new anti-schizophrenia medications coming on the U.S. market.
"We expect approval yet this year ... There's been no hint of any issues" from the FDA that might cause delay, said Lilly spokesman Edward West.
The FDA has not scheduled an advisory committee hearing for Zyprexa. West said Lilly has no indication that a committee hearing will be set. Analysts said the drug likely will be cleared without committee deliberations.
"The big expectation would be that Zyprexa will be approved ... That's what's on everybody's radar screen," said Smith Barney pharmaceuticals analyst Christina Heuer.
Zyprexa received a positive opinion in June from the European Union's Committee for Proprietary Medicinal Products. European marketing approval likely will follow, analysts said.
Close behind Lilly are Abbott Laboratories Inc with Serlect, Zeneca Group Plc with Seroquel and Pfizer Inc with Ziprasidone. All are expected to hit the market within the next 12 months.
Already on the market are Johnson & Johnson's Risperdal, Sandoz AG's Clozaril and the benchmark treatment available since 1967, haloperidol, as well as a host of less frequently prescribed drugs.
Studies have shown that one in 100 people is schizophrenic. Estimates of the annual U.S. market for treating the disease range from $1 billion to $4.5 billion.
Looking at the huge success of Lilly's Prozac in treating clinical depression, drugmakers are hoping to score equally impressive wins with the new anti-schizophrenics.
These are the leading stories in the Maltese press on Tuesday. Reuters has not verified these stories and does not vouch for their accuracy.
- Russian plane bound for Malta crashes in Belgrade. Mystery about nature of cargo bound for Libya. International news agencies reported on Monday that the plane was carrying military hardware, but the aircraft's owners said it was carrying sportswear and rescue flares.
The Malta government said the plane was carrying agricultural equipment and sportswear which were to be unloaded in Malta for shipment to Libya.
- Opposition says government hiding real economic situation. Labour Party spokesman Lino Spiteri said the five percent growth this year was, according to the Malta Central Bank, expected to come from government expenditure and private consumption, harming the balance of payments. Spiteri said economic expansion should be based on exports.
- Company considering legal action against opposition leader. Malta Fishfarming is considering action after opposition leader Alfred Sant on Sunday said it was operating without planning permission. Sant on Monday issued a statement saying he was mistaken when he said the prime minister's son was involved in the company.
- General workers' union warns of industrial action at Sea Malta. The dispute is over a collective agreement on working conditions.
PDK Labs Inc said Tuesday it had received a $15 million revolving line of credit from Chase Manhattan Corp.
A PDK spokeswoman said the company got the credit from the corporation's bank on Friday.
She said it planned to use the money to carry more receivables and buy machinery to expand its production lines, among other things.
China has started developing a new oilfield in the Yanqi basin in the northwestern region of Xinjiang, the overseas edition of the People's Daily said on Tuesday.
The Baolang oil field, covering an area of about 39.2 square km, has estimated crude oil reserves of more than 60 million tonnes, it said.
The new oil field was being jointly developed by the China National Petroleum Corp and the Zhongyuan oil field authorities, it said without giving further details.
British Airways Plc (BA) chief executive Robert Ayling said he was optimistic about "open skies" talks between Britain and the United States on liberalising air travel between the two countries.
New attempts to negotiate an "open skies" deal began in July after BA and American Airlines urged the governments to free up competition as a condition for approving their proposed plans to join forces on the trans-Atlantic market.
"We are optimistic that there is enough coincidence of policy that there would be an agreement between the two aeronautical authorities and then being cleared by the competition authorities, and if all that happens, it will go ahead on the first of April (1997)," Ayling said.
However, BA's existing trans-Atlantic partner USAir, in which the British carrier has a 24.6 percent stake, wants to sue BA over its planned alliance with American Airlines.
Ayling said he has not spoken to any USAir executives over the legal wrangle.
"Unfortunately the USAir partnership did not go the way we would have liked," Ayling said.
"I think they were unjustified ... but perhaps the nature of business relations in the United States is more contentious there than we are used to," Ayling said.
The United States and Britain will resume talks next week toward reaching a liberalised agreement on aviation services.
Ayling was in Sydney to visit the operations of BA's 25 percent owned Qantas Airways Ltd.
CIA Director John Deutch said in a letter published on Tuesday that he had no plans to step down as top U.S. spymaster, contrary to published speculation.
In a letter to the editor of the Washington Post, Deutch took the paper to task for a front-page report last week that quoted him as having told friends he planned to leave at year's end.
"First, I am not leaving," Deutch, who took over as intelligence chief in May 1995, wrote. "I have no plans to leave. I repeated the same message to the White House the day the article appeared."
"I will confess that I am now on vacation, but I shall return," he said. He added that he wanted to do all he could to make sure that the U.S. spy bureaucray remains "the best in the world."
The Post had quoted one person identified as a Deutch friend as saying Deutch, a former deputy defence secretary, hoped to succeed William Perry as defence secretary if President Bill Clinton were re-elected to a second term.
Deutch replaced James Woolsey, Clinton's first intelligence chief. Woolsey quit in December 1994 after running into problems with Congress over his handling of the Aldrich Ames spy case, the worst known security breach in CIA history.
"Because the Greens stood up to (Labor Prime Minister) Paul Keating (in 1993) there was something like A$100 million extra came out for those most vulnerable people at the bottom end of the income scale in Australia," Brown told reporters after the delivery of the 1996/97 federal budget.
"It's not a matter of delaying the budget, it's a matter of allowing a full and proper public debate," Brown said.
In 1993 the Australian dollar and bond markets were sold down sharply when Green and other independent senators held up passage of some budget bills for over a month.
The Greens, the Democrats and Labor have said they would not block the appropriations bills, which effectively gives the government the money needed to spend on day-to-day affairs.
The government would have to shut down eventually without these bills.
"Those areas where we are required to make a decision, personally I take that very seriously and make sure that by the time I am required to make a decision I have the best information upon which to do that," Margetts said.
Treasurer Peter Costello said earlier on Tuesday that there were some measures in the budget which could be knocked back by the Senate.
Costello delivered a budget projecting an underlying deficit of A$5.65 billion in the year to June 30, 1997, including A$3.9 billion of deficit cuts.
Labor Treasury spokesman Gareth Evans earlier said Labor would vote against a hike in fees for university students.
* NOTE - Comparative figure at end-December 1995.
April it expected a substantial profit rise in 1996.
Main Street and Main Inc said sales at its restaurants continue at softer-than-expected levels with same store revenue figures since the end of the company's second quarter down roughly five percent.
Sales continue to remain soft, but we (are focused) on ways to increase earnings," Joe Panter, president, said in a statement along with the company's second quarter results.
Main Street said the lower same store sales were attributable, principally, to six restaurants. The company operates a total of 43 casual dining restaurants.
The company noted the performance of its one "Front Row Sports Grill" negatively effected earnings and it is "considering various alternatives" about its future.
Main Street did not say what those alternatives were and a company official was not immediately available to comment.
The company said its total $7.4 million charge covered the write-off of one promissory note, some real estate, pre-opening costs of three restaurants and and other expenses.
Sugar prices eased modestly on Tuesday in sluggish trading, dealers said.
Light consumer demand and higher supplies pulled prices down and the undercurrent was steady, they said.
In the ready delivery sugar S-30 slid 5.0 rupees to 1,370/1,400 per quintal while M-30 fell 10 to 1,395/1,440.
Sugar mill delivery also dropped 5.0 rupees to 1,315/1,325 per quintal in the absence of fresh outstation buying.
Aegon NV's 1996 first half net profit is expected to rise by some 12 percent to 690 million guilders, according to a Reuter poll of nine analysts.
Analysts said the Dutch insurer's increased stake in Scottish Equitable would help boost first-half earnings which are due to be reported on Thursday.
Aegon raised its stake in Scottish Equitable from 60 to 80 percent from January 1, 1996 and will further increase it step by step to 100 percent by the end of 1998.
"The market in Britain is improving and Aegon is getting a larger portion of Scottish Equitable's profit," said Jean-Paul van Bavel of Van Lanschot Bankiers.
"The profit contribution from Scottish Equitable is steady," he said, adding that Aegon's unit was performing better than most of its competitors in the improving British market.
Analysts also mentioned the modest recovery of the U.S. dollar and the pound sterling as an extra boost for Aegon's first-half earnings.
The life sector, from which stem 80 percent of Aegon's earnings, is still growing strongly and analysts said the non-life sector was showing signs of stabilising.
"Aegon does not depend much on non-life business," Van Bavel said, adding that the climate had turned more favourable in this cyclical sector.
Several analysts said they foresaw Aegon's profits growing at the same pace in the second half of 1996 as the 12 percent or so expected for the first six months.
Analysts said Aegon's new German investment operation Moneymaxx, set up from scratch in late 1995, was probably not yet profitable.
Dick Erdman of brokers Gilissen said Aegon would probably have to sink some 50 million guilders into Moneymaxx this year to establish a position in the competitive German market.
Silver prices have turned a corner after breaching technical resistance levels and are now poised for further gains, Australian metals dealers said on Tuesday.
COMEX silver ended up 13.300 U.S. cents an ounce at $5.210, after trading up to a session high at $5.240.
Technical resistance markers surrounding a price of $5.15 an ounce had been keeping a cap on the price.
End users of silver, such as photographic film manufacturers and jewellery fabricators are said to be willing buyers of silver under $5.00 an ounce, but may now re-think their buying strategies in light of the price run-up.
"It all depends on whether silver keeps going up and the price is sustainable," another dealer said.
Australia's MIM Holdings Ltd, which produced 12.6 million ounces of silver in 1995/96, making it one of the world's largest silver miners, would see about A$5 million added to its bottom line for each 10 percent gain in the price on an annual basis, a company spokesman told Reuters.
The Perth Mint on Tuesday quoted silver at US$5.23 an ounce (A$6.61).
Bombay shares recovered part of their losses on Tuesday helped by domestic institutional demand after the market plunged on Monday, brokers said.
"It was a combination of local fund buying and short covering," one trader said, referring to the gains. "We'll have to wait till tomorrow to see where the market is headed."
He said the close of weekly account on the NSE halted speculative selling and forced short covering, but the undercurrent was shaky.
Traders said foreign institutional investors (FIIs) continued to sell shares of SBI, the country's largest commercial bank, which has plans to issue global depositary receipts (GDRs) for up to $500 million.
"The GDRs are priced on the basis of the underlying stock on the BSE," one trader said. "The FIIs stand to benefit if they can pick up the GDRs cheaply."
The 50-share NSE index edged up 3.71 points to a provisional 979.71.
Local fund buying helped TISCO gain 3.25 rupees at 183.75, TELCO 10.0 at 465 and BSES 3.50 at 180.50.
Bajaj Auto rallied 17.50 rupees to 990, Hindalco 12.0 to 950, Indian Hotels 9.50 to 767.50, Ranbaxy 8.50 to 608.75, Hind Lever 8.0 to 826.75, Reliance 6.0 to 201 and ITC 4.0 to 286.
UK grains futures closed higher on Tuesday as rain in some parts of the country slowed the harvest again and on talk of demand from North Africa.
Traders said sellers had also pulled out of the market, adding to firmer tone.
Prices were underpined by reports that some North African countries may be avoiding buying U.S. soft red wheat because the vomitoxin content is exceeding locally permitted levels.
"This could be a chance to get back some of the market we lost to the U.S. last season, if Brussels will let us export," said a trader.
Rain in some parts of the UK has again slowed the harvest.
"The rain means that the grain isn't coming in as fast as expected and the slower it comes in the more time people have to find storage space which is taking some of the downward pressure off prices," said another trader.
Wheat futures closed 1.85 to 1.05 stg up on a turnover of 542 lots.
Barley finished 1.65 to 1.35 stg up after trading 79 lots.
In Amsterdam milling wheat futures remained under harvest pressure with values two to five marks lower at the close on a turnover of 24 lots.
Trading on the UK cash markets slowed as the futures rose.
However, feed wheat fetched 106.50 and 107 stg a tonne for Aug on the fob market ex-east coast ports.
On the delivered market most of the trade was for spot material but at lower tonnages than on Monday.
Feed wheat was fetching around 104 stg in East Anglia for spot while milling wheat in the Avon range was trading at 124 stg for Aug and feed barley 106.50 stg for Oct/Dec in East Anglia.
German wheat prices are poised for further falls as the harvest makes progress across the country, brokers said on Tuesday.
The exception was the north, where some crops had not finished ripening and would take another eight to 10 days, although the weather was now dry and sunny.
"Buyers and sellers can't agree as buyers point to good harvests elsewhere in Europe and to early indications of good German yields and protein contents," one said.
"Sellers hope for Eastern European and North African demand and won't lower their quality wheat prices," he added.
The Hamburg grain exchange maintained its new crop bread wheat price (12.5 percent, 220 hagberg) at 282.50 marks.
This is 7.50 marks down from the start of the month.
Brokers said ex-farm bread wheat prices across the country of around 270-290 marks should be poised for further falls.
This would be especially the case in western regions, where French producers were marketing output that they could not sell abroad under restrictive EU export policies.
Feed wheat free Hamburg was lowered to 277.50 marks by the exchange, having shed five marks so far in August.
Brokers said local supplies could not compete with British and Danish offers at 265 marks cif northern Germany Aug/Sept.
But the local price of first-half 1997 feed wheat at 280 marks was below British offers at 282.
Fob Baltic prices of bread wheat for September-November delivery (250 hagberg) were in a 277.50-307.50 marks range, depending on lot size and protein content.
Brokers hoped high protein (13-14 percent) wheat at 300 marks and more would be marketeable in Spain, France and Britain, where 11-12 percent is more typical and where blending material is needed to achieve baking qualities.
Poland and Hungary suffered crop losses in the harsh 1995/96 winter and would also need to buy in quality wheat.
Farm union DBV will issue a new harvest report on Wednesday, and this should offer clues to the impact of weather disruptions to grain harvests earlier this month.
Redman Industries Inc said on Tuesday it had entered into a definitive agreement to merge with Champion Enterprises Inc, with each Redman share being converted into 1.24 shares of Champion.
Champion said it would issue about 17 million shares in the merger and would have 51 million shares outstanding after the deal.
Redman recently had 13.36 million shares outstanding.
Both companies said they had rescinded their stock repurchase programs.
Walter Young will remain chairman, president and chief executive officer of Champion, Champion said.
Robert Lipton, president and CEO of Redman, will head Redman, which will be a subsidiary of Champion.
Champion said pro forma trailing 12-month sales for the two companies were about $1.5 billion.
Redman closed at 25-3/4 on Monday.
Champion closed at 21-5/8.
Former president F.W. de Klerk addresses South Africa's "truth commission" on Wednesday in a bid to explain why his National Party plunged the country into 46 years of apartheid misery.
De Klerk, who acknowledged in 1990 that South Africa's race policies were untenable and began reforms that led to majority rule four years later, will present his party's overview of apartheid to Archbishop Desmond Tutu's Truth and Reconciliation Commssion.
He said this week the presentation would take the long view, starting with the 1652 arrival of the Dutch ancestors of today's Afrikaners in Cape Town, site of the truth commission hearing.
"I'm looking forward to the opportunity to...put what happened from our vantage point in the proper context," de Klerk said. "Part of that will also be to accept overall responsibility for many things which went wrong."
Since it began work in April, Tutu's commission has heard a lengthy litany of what went wrong, ranging from torture to police hit-squad killings and burning tyre "necklace" murders.
Harrowing testimony has been given by black survivors of the white minority government's campaign against the African National Congress -- which under President Nelson Mandela now rules the country -- and other liberation movements.
But on Monday the commission heard bitter criticism of the National Party, which implemented apartheid in 1948, from de Klerk's fellow-Afrikaner, General Constand Viljoen.
Viljoen, a former defence force chief who heads a right-wing party pressing for Afrikaner self-determination, began the series of party submissions to the commission by saying apartheid's foot soldiers should not get all the blame.
"It is unfair that the operators be exposed as the chief perpetrators of atrocities when the politicians and strategy managers hide behind their status and positions," he said.
"The masterminds behind this crucible of past iniquities more than anybody else should account for their schemes even if that brings political embarrassment to their parties today."
De Klerk, who jointly won the Nobel peace prize with Mandela in 1993, is now trying to position his party as a credible opposition to the ANC, repeatedly disowning its past as the whites-only architect of apartheid.
Most of the leaders of the party today are relative moderates while such apartheid stalwarts as Hendrik Verwoerd, John Vorster and P.W. Botha are dead or deep in retirement.
Mandela's government set up the truth commission in the belief that it could heal the wounds of apartheid by exposing as full a picture as possible of the crimes and atrocities committed by all sides.
In the narrow, cobbled streets of Portuguese-run Macau, a rocky outcrop on the south China coast, a humble rice cake has come to symbolise a meeting of cultures.
The cake, a twist of traditional Portuguese pastry fashioned from rice flour, is called Bolo de Arroz. So is the popular cafe run by Luisa Castanheira.
"We named it Bolo de Arroz because rice cakes are a traditional Portuguese pastry and rice is associated with China, and here in Macau we are in China," Castanheira told Reuters.
The cake shop, which doubles as a Lisbon-style coffee house, has become an institution among local residents and tourists, almost three years after its opening by the Castanheira family from Portugal.
"We are not just a cake shop and cafe but also a meeting place," said Castanheira, from Lisbon.
Some local Chinese call the shop "the Portuguese cave," not only for its cavern-like layout but also because they consider it to be the territory's number-one hangout for civil servants on secondment for Portugal.
She said that while most of her customers were Portuguese, there was an ever increasing number of tourists from Hong Kong and elsewhere, as well as local Chinese dropping by.
"The Portuguese tend to linger on, but many Chinese just come for takeaways," Castanheira said.
For Macau's 4,000-plus Portuguese expatriates, the Bolo de Arroz is the ultimate culinary blessing in the twilight years of Portugal's rule over the territory, which reverts to China in 1999.
For the majority Chinese population and foreign visitors, the Bolo de Arroz is one of the exotic attractions of Macau's unique Sino-Portuguese cultural -- and culinary -- heritage.
In the local Chinese dialect, Cantonese, the shop is called "mai beng uk" or rice cake house.
The Bolo de Arroz not only serves rice cakes but 100 other types of Portuguese-style cakes, sandwiches, cheeses and hams imported from Portugal.
The shop is in the basement of a residential building on Travessa de S. Domingos next to Macau's main square, the Largo do Senado. It seats up to 40 people, including several tables on a mezzanine gallery.
With the exception of a master pastry cook from Portugal, all its employees are Filipinos, some of whom have already picked up a smattering of Portuguese.
Castanheira is confident her shop in Macau will be around long after the change in sovereignty.
The family also runs three Portuguese restaurants in Macau, and is mulling proposals to open a Portuguese rice cake shop in the nearby British colony of Hong Kong, which China takes back in mid-1997.
The Washington Public Power Supply System said Tuesday it plans to sell $400 million revenue bonds for nuclear projects 1, 2 and 3 on September 10.
Goldman Sachs & Co will underwrite the offering, WPPSS officials said.
As Russian troops and Chechen rebels square off in the tense, battle-shattered city of Grozny, both sides are peacefully cooperating in a neighbouring town.
All they want, they say, is for politicians to leave them alone in this war-zone "oasis".
Argun, 15 km (10 miles) east of Grozny, appeared quiet on Tuesday compared with the regional capital, most of which was seized by separatist fighters on August 6 and turned into a battleground.
"We, the fighters, are keeping in constant contact with Russian military staff here and escort the OMON (crack police force) when they go to pick up food," local rebel commander Abu Khamzatov said.
As he spoke, a Russian armoured vehicle passed by, packed with a dozen confused Russian policemen and Chechen guerrillas shouting their battle cry -- "Allahu Akbar (God is Greatest).
Russian OMON servicemen at a post nearby seemed unimpressed by the drivepast.
"The Chechens explained the need to convoy us by a desire to rule out any provocations," said an OMON officer who refused to give his name. "That sounded reasonable enough."
When separatist fighters seized parts of Grozny and rolled into other Chechen towns, Russian forces positioned there had to make up their minds.
"We soon realised that hopes for reinforcements and arms from Khankala (a key Russian base near Grozny) would never come. We had to make a deal with the rebels," the OMON officer said.
He said all sorts of options had been discussed.
"The rebels suggested that we disarm and promised money and an escort to see us off," he said. "But Khankala would not take us and we have nowhere to go."
"Our only desire is to get home safely with our arms after our duty tour ends on August 23," he added.
The officer said that the deal embraced all Russian troops in Argun-- except one commando battalion just 500 metres (yards) away from the OMON post.
"Their commander had been killed and now they are fighting every night," he said.
But Argun has become a stop-over point for tens of thousands refugees hurrying to flee Grozny after Russia's acting military commander in Chechnya General Konstantin Pulikovsky threatened to shell the city.
"There are too many refugees in Argun," said the OMON officer. "We and the rebels have a common aim of preventing senseless bloodshed and destruction here".
The OMON troops stationed in Argun had been sent in from the ethnic republic of Karachaevo-Cherkessia, also situated in the volatile North Caucasus.
The force is made up of both ethnic Russians and representatives of the republic's Moslem ethnic groups.
However beneficial the deal with rebels, the sight of separatists convoying troops can hardly add to morale among the OMON servicemen.
"When I see this convoy I have a split feeling," a policemen from the town of Cherkessk said. "On the one hand I am ashamed of our impotence, but on the other hand I admire these Chechen guys who are fighting for their freedom."
An ultimatum announced by the Russian military commander in Chechnya General Konstantin Pulikovsky to rebels in Grozny to withdraw or or face bombardment has caused fresh problems to the Russian commanders in Argun.
"The rebels have so far guaranteed our safety," the OMON officer said. "But they also said if bloodshed starts in Grozny the same will happen in Argun."
Rebel commanders were cool. "We have an accord and it will hold if the politicians do not make us fight," a local rebel commander Turpal said.
The following high-yield debt issue was priced on Tuesday, according to lead manager Merrill Lynch & Co Inc.
Note: India country fund prices are compiled from the rates quoted by Jardine Fleming Securities, Merrill Lynch, Robert Fleming, Barclays De Zoete Wedd, Barings, Bear Stearns, Credit Lyonnais and WI Carr in London. They are indicative and for reference only. For further information please telephone Shyam Kumar in Bombay on 022-265 9000.
Pakhoed posted a first-half net profit of 4.6 million guilders, down from 61.4 million in the year-ago period.
This year's figure included a 54.3 million guilder extraordinary charge because of the sale of the Furness subsidiary and a restructuring of Pakhoed's Rotterdam tank storage operations.
"Apart from the costs in relation to the final transfer of Furness we don't expect further extraordinary charges in the second half-year of 1996," the firm said in a statement.
Pakhoed said the reorganisation would cause substantial cost reductions at the units concerned. In addition, the sale of Furness and the previously announced takeover of U.S. chemicals distributor Univar Corp would have an important effect.
"Royal Pakhoed has taken several important measures aimed at implementing the strategic objectives and which will have a substantial effect on Pakhoed's results for 1996 and will put Pakhoed in a much better position for the future," it said.
The company used standby facilities to pay for the Univar takeover but said it intends to carry out a refinancing operation in the autumn of this year.
"A study is currently under way to determine the extent and conditions of the refinancing, also depending on the financial divesture of Furness and the determination of the goodwill involved in the acquisition of Univar," Pakhoed said.
Earlier this month, it said it had reached a tentative agreement on selling Furness to industrial investment firm Hollandia Industriele Maatschappij NV.
Blue-chip stocks rallied Tuesday after the Federal Reserve held interest rates steady, the dollar rose after a drop in the June trade deficit, and bonds ended little changed.
Crude oil fell after rising on Monday. Gold edged higher.
The Dow Jones industrial average closed up 21.82 points at 5,721.26, putting the blue-chip index within a stone's throw of its record closing high of 5,778.00 set on May 22.
In the broader market, advancing issues led declines 1,230 to 1,068 on moderate volume of 334 million shares on the New York Stock Exchange.
The central bank's policy-setting Federal Open Market Committee ended its meeting in early afternoon and kept interest rates unchanged, allowing Wall Street to hurdle any lingering fears of a surprise increase.
"It was as expected. If we can neutralise the interest rate factor here, prices can go higher," said Richard Cripps, chief market strategist at Legg Mason Wood Walker.
The Fed had been expected to hold interest rates steady amid signs the economy was slowing after strong second quarter growth without inflation heating up.
But investors still preferred to hold back until the policy-makers announced that they were keeping short term rates unchanged.
The independent Fed also sought to stay out of the line of political fire in the approach to the Nov. 5 presidential and congressional elections.
After growing at its fastest pace in two years in the second quarter, the economy looks to have slowed recently as the housing market has weakened and retail sales have stalled.
Blue-chips actually pared their gains shortly after the Fed news.
"For a few seconds it looked like the buy the rumour, sell the fact. But then the Dow came back up and it's hard to find any indices doing anything spectacular," said Joseph Barthel, chief investment strategist at Fahnestock & Co.
"It's a Dow-inspired rally and in some ways because of the liquidity factor, visibility and safety," he added.
Meanwhile, weakness in high-technology stocks pressured the technology-studded Nasdaq composite index, which closed down 6.24 points at 1,124.67.
In currency markets, the dollar climbed above 108 yen after the Commerce Department reported the United States trade gap shrank 23 percent in June as imports of merchandise and petroleum fell sharply.
While the trade shortfall with Japan rose 3.6 percent in June, the second-quarter deficit of $10.5 billion with Japan was the smallest quarterly deficit in five years.
The trend boosted the dollar since it decreased the amount of dollars foreign exporters will need to sell for their local currencies.
"It was a good trade number," said Greg Pearman, chief foreign exchange dealer at Credit Commerciale de France in New York. "There was definitely one huge buyer today who right after the (trade) number bought a lot of dollars for yen."
Late in New York, the dollar settled at 108.35 yen, up from 107.80 yen late on Monday. The dollar rose slightly to 1.4883 German marks from 1.4880 marks.
In the bond market, the yield on the 30-year Treasury ended unchanged at 6.80 percent.
Crude oil for September delivery lost 40 cents to $22.86 a barrel at the New York Mercantile Exchange. September gold added 50 cents to close at $388.60 an ounce at New York's Commodity Exchange.
Overseas, Britain's FTSE 100 climbed 19.5 points to a record 3,883.2, surpassing the old mark of 3,872.9 set just last week. Japan's 225-share Nikkei average rose 20.60 points to 21,127.01.
Seagram Co unit MCA Motion Picture Group said Tuesday executive vice-president Joseph Fischer has retired.
Fischer, 65, has worked in the entertainment business for 30 years and included working as president of MGM/United Artists and executive vice-president of Columbia Pictures. Fischer had worked at MCA for the past nine years.
Australia's seasonally adjusted average gross domestic product (GDP-A), which averages income, expenditure and production measures of GDP, rose 0.1 percent in the June quarter, the Australian Bureau of Statistics said.
Real GDP-A in the year to June rose 4.5 percent.
March quarter GDP-A was upwardly revised to 2.0 percent from the original 1.8 percent estimate.
Most economists had forecast June quarter GDP-A to be flat, for a year-on-year increase of 3.9 percent.
The Dutch central bank said on Tuesday it allocated 2.89 billion guilders to the money market under a three-day special advances pact at an unchanged rate of 2.70 percent.
Individual banks' applications up to three billion guilders were met for 12 percent. Above that level no subscriptions were awarded.
The pact replaces a five-day facility of 4.24 billion guilders which expired today.
Bankrupt online information service Europe Online SA logged off on Tuesday after last-ditch talks with Deutsche Telekom and others to keep the Luxembourg-based operation running finally bit the dust.
"Europe Online has ceased to operate. No agreement was reached by a deadline this morning so we had to close it down," Albert Wildgen, a member of the team of Europe Online's liquidators, told Reuters. He declined to give further details.
Desperate attempts followed to find new investors or shareholders, which included negotiations with rival U.S. online company CompuServe and Deutsche Telekom, but no deal was reached and the company was declared bankrupt on August 2.
A legal source close to the liquidation process, who asked not to be named, said German telecommunications company Deutsche Telekom had decided late last week against salvaging the operation, adding, "It would have been a pure asset deal."
Similar talks had continued with two other, unnamed parties but these too failed, the source said.
Deutsche Telekom, which was owed money by Europe Online for access to its own data network, said at the beginning of August that it remained interested in cooperation with the company.
"Deutsche Telekom wants to go international and one option was to chose the assets of Europe Online. But in the end they decided it was not worth it," the legal source said.
"Europe Online broke down at an early stage of its development -- it had brilliant ideas, but not enough substance (for Deutsche Telekom)," he added. Deutsche Telekom's own successful T-Online service has over a million German customers.
With about 25,000 subscribers altogether, Europe Online had national services in Germany, Britain and Luxembourg, as well as an international service in English, which included news, weather, travel, sports and entertainment.
Liquidators said all that was left now was to sell off the individual assets of the company. They said that at the time of its bankruptcy, Europe Online had debts of about $40 million, of which about $30 million in the form of loans by shareholders.
NOTE - General Co Ltd is a major producer of thermal transfer ribbons.
A U.N. mission in Guatemala said on Monday insufficient progress had been made on human rights, as death threats and kidnappings remained unchecked by the country's judiciary and police.
In a report made available to the media on Monday, the U.N. human rights mission also hailed the government's efforts in moving ahead on peace negotiations with leftist rebels.
"The mission highly values the political will of the Guatemalan government and the Guatemalan National Revolutionary Unit to leave arms behind and finish with war," David Stephen, the director of the United Nations Mission for Verification of Human Rights in Guatemala, told reporters.
Stephen presented the report -- the mission's fifth in more than two  years -- to President Alvaro Arzu and commanders of leftist rebels last week.
The mission, in Guatemala since late 1993, investigates allegations of human rights abuses, promotes human rights education and monitors implementation of peace accords to end Guatemala's 36-year civil war.
Stephen told a news conference that Guatemala still had an alarming number of death threats and kidnappings and that the population lacked confidence in the justice system.
Other problems were ineffective courts and security forces and the army's refusal to cooperate with criminal investigations into members of its forces, he added.
The report said that a high percentage of the prison population is composed of persons accused of petty crimes.
"In other, serious cases, however, in which there is evidence pointing to the liabiity of the defendant, release has been granted, generating a lack of confidence in the justice system among the population," it added.
"I think there's probably uneven growth in the economy," Costello said in a radio interview.
"The service sector is doing better, the mining sector is doing better and there's been a recovery in the rural sector."
But, he added, the budget aimed to help the small business sector by giving tax relief.
The Reserve Bank of Australia's 50 basis-point cut in the official cash rate on July 31 would also boost confidence and assist small business, he said.
Checking out of Chicago's Conrad Hilton Hotel in 1968, a journalist in town to cover that year's riot-scarred Democratic National Convention said, "I wonder if they'll ever get that smell out of the lobby?"
The stench of a stink bomb set off in the elevator lobby was a final wound to the sprawling hotel that for days had stood in the path of violence as anti-Vietnam War protesters outside clashed repeatedly with police and soldiers.
The stink is long gone. The hotel, now renamed the Chicago Hilton Hotel and Towers, has undergone a $185 million renovation. It is not the headquarters hotel for next week's Democratic National Convention, as it was 28 years ago.
It will, however, house the Mississippi and California delegations. California's includes Tom Hayden, who in 1968 was in the street leading protests. He wants a nonsmoking room.
One guest from 1968 who says he will not be back this year is fomer Sen. Eugene McCarthy. He and the army of young people who supported his anti-war campaign were a boisterous presence inside and outside the hotel 28 years ago.
Warren Christopher, now the secretry of state and then President Lyndon Johnson's point man on urban violence, spent a night at the Hilton during the height of the melee. He later called it "the worst night I've ever spent."
The hotel, built in 1927 by Supreme Court Justice John Paul Stevens' father and grandfather and originally carrying the Stevens family name, absorbed the blows.
Elevators were slow and crowded. Protesters let inside by guests or friendly staff roosted here and there in stairwells and halls. Crowds three deep vied for seats at a lobby coffee shop, some reluctant to go outside except to take a shuttle bus to the convention several miles (kilometres) away.
Violence erupted in Grant Park along the Lake Michigan waterfront across from the Hilton because of the hotel's headquarters status and the city's decision not let protesters sleep in the parks. Officials also feared the crowds would descend on the convention site at the International Amphitheater if they were allowed past the Hilton.
At one point, police shoved a protester through a plate glass window in the hotel's sidewalk-level Haymarket Lounge.
"It was totally amazing. You'd look out the door at 11 o'clock at night and see people from one end of the block to the next," recalls Nick Costanzo, then a bellman, now director of guest services at the hotel.
Police wanted the hotel to lock its front doors, apparently for the first time since 1927, but no key could be found.
Costanzo remembers turning away folksinging trio Peter, Paul and Mary, who had sung for the crowd outside and sought respite inside. They were about to be followed into the hotel by several hundred people. They left politely, he said.
A young couple with a baby who had joined the protest were allowed to camp out for several days in a stairwell, he said. "It was so cute. Every morning about 6 o'clock, I'd watch the policemen go across the street with a baby bottle and bring it back for the baby."
A far different police image from 1968 persists. A panel appointed by the White House to investigate the violence called much of it a "police riot" in which demonstrators, journalists and others who got in the way were clubbed and roughed up.
President Boris Yeltsin said a new coup d'etat was still possible in Russia but insisted it had no more chance of success than the botched hardline putsch five years ago that helped propel him to power.
In an interview to be published on Wednesday in Moskovsky Komsomolets newspaper, quoted by Itar-Tass news agency on Tuesday, Yeltsin also bemoaned the combativeness of Russian society and its imperfect freedom.
"I don't rule out that under a certain coincidence of circumstances such (coup) attempts are possible, albeit very unlikely," Yeltsin said. "In any case, the results of such actions would be the same, if not sorrier, than in August 1991.
"In the last five years, society and Russian statehood itself have changed," he said. "The recent presidential elections clearly demonstrated that."
The interview marked the fifth anniversary of the hardline communist coup against Soviet leader Mikhail Gorbachev, which was launched on August 19, 1991 and ended three days later.
Yeltsin, then newly elected president of Russia, rallied resistance in Moscow. The defeat of the plot helped him undermine Gorbachev and led to the dissolution of the Soviet Union.
The anniversary has been little celebrated and was marred by a bloody flare-up in the 20-month war in Chechnya.
The president, whose aides on Tuesday had again to deny reports that he was ill, said the biggest danger for Russia was its failure to cast off the sharp divisiveness ingrained by decades of communist rule.
"In Russia, there is still a notable tendency to search for enemies and irreconcilable conflicts. So-called class hatred and the division between "us' and "them' are raising their heads," he said. "All this is a consequence of long years of living in a totalitarian state. And it will not vanish overnight."
"We have still not graduated from that school where we will become familiar with the hard science of freedom," he added.
"But I am convinced Russia will definitely master it and become a truly free Russia. And that will be the main result of the August victory."
South Korean riot police backed by helicopters and assault troops stormed a Seoul campus on Tuesday to end a seven-day occupation by students demanding reunification with North Korea.
They smashed through a bonfire of wooden desks and chairs engulfing the main entrance of a teaching block and flushed out about 1,000 mostly female students after a pitched battle.
Hours later, a further 1,000 or so terrified students holed up in a nearby science block fled into alleys and hills surrounding the Yonsei University campus where they were hunted down. They had earlier threatened to explode gas canisters and dangerous chemicals seized from laboratories.
In all 3,225 students were arrested, bringing the total held in a week of pro-Pyongyang agitation at Yonsei to around 5,500.
Dozens of students were injured in the assault by denim-clad riot police trained in martial arts and many had blood streaming from head wounds as they were dragged away.
A South Korean news photographer was in critical condition in hospital after being struck on the head by a rock.
The raid started just before dawn when police helicopters skimmed low over the classroom complex and dropped liquid teargas on students packed on the roof.
Thousands of riot police rushed the building, occupied by undergraduates calling for unity with North Korea on Pyongyang's terms that would leave the governments of both North and South intact.
The students also demanded the withdrawal of U.S. troops stationed in the South, which is still technically at war with the North since the 1950-53 Korean War.
Police held aloft metal shields as students rained down rocks, desks, chairs and petrol bombs.
After leaping across flames at the entrance and clambering through smashed windows, they were briefly beaten back by a raging fire in the lobby.
Firefighters successfully brought the blaze under control.
By then, some students on the roof were waving white flags to signal surrender.
On the rooftop of an adjacent building, assault troops dropped by helicopter and wearing black balaclavas trained automatic weapons on student occupiers.
One male student clung by his fingertips from the roof and threatened to let go in a suicide bid before changing his mind.
Police grabbed and pummelled him with their fists.
Large parts of the classroom building were gutted by fire and equipment was smashed beyond repair.
"This place is beyond recognition," said university administrator Yoo Young-choon, surveying the scene.
Authorities have branded the student leaders as Communist stooges and more than 100 have been formally charged, some under national security laws.
Outside the main campus gate, about 50 mothers and other relatives of the students wailed and pleaded for mercy for the youths. "My son is not a communist," one mother screamed.
Students fleeing from the science block scrambled over alleyway rooftops in their desperation to avoid club-wielding police. Some resisted arrest by hurling rocks and brandishing iron bars.
Minutes before their escape, a student leader denounced the raid at a news conference as a "murderous crackdown".
On Saturday police cut off food and medicine to the students. Dozens were rushed to hospital on Monday suffering from hunger and exhaustion.
Militant students find themselves isolated from a hostile public as they press their violent campaign for reunification.
Heroes of the battle for democracy in the late 1980s, when the middle classes rallied behind them, the radical students have now alienated ordinary South Koreans by embracing Pyongyang's blueprint for a single Korea.
Tuesday's assault was the worst campus violence since President Kim Young-sam took power in 1993.
Prophet 21 Inc said on Tuesday it plans to repurchase up to 400,000 shares from time to time on the open market.
The company provided no further details on the repurchase plan.
SIMEX Brent futures dipped in afternoon dealings on Tuesday, weighed by a decline on NYMEX, after earlier indicating they would hold London's gains from Monday.
October last traded at $20.75, down ten cents from London's settlement price of $20.85.
They said a weaker tone on NYMEX triggered the sales and suggested traders could be squaring ahead of NYMEX September's expiry and the release of American Petroleum Institute stock data later.
The NYMEX September contract fell to a last trade at $23.10 on the after-hours ACCESS system, down from $23.26 at the New York close on Monday.
A.G. Edwards & Sons, Inc.
Dean Witter Reynolds, Inc.
Chiles Heider Division of Smith Barney Inc.
Piper, Jaffray Inc.
Swedish construction and real estate group Skanska is forecast to post a profit after financial items of 3.10 billion crowns for the first half of 1996, a Reuters poll of eight analysts found on Tuesday.
This compared to a profit after financial items of 1.72 billion crowns in the same period a year ago.
Forecasts for the six months to June 30, 1996, varied between 2.80 billion crowns and 3.33 billion with a median of 3.10 billion crowns.
For the full year, analysts forecast an average profit after financial items of 4.25 billion crowns.
Forecasts varied between 4.00 billion and 4.50 billion crowns.
Skanska is due to release its half year profit on August 22.
Lloyd's of London Tuesday braced for a possible ruling in a crucial United States court case that threatens at the last minute to upset a recovery plan for the 300-year-old insurance market.
Tens of thousands of investors in Lloyd's worldwide are anxiously awaiting the outcome of the case in Richmond, Va., where U.S. investors, known as Names, have applied for an injunction to block the recovery plan.
Under its rescue proposals, Lloyd's is to reinsure billions of pounds in liabilities, including pollution and asbestos-related claims in the United States, into a new company called Equitas.
Names have only eight days left in which to accept or reject this plan, on which the future of the market hangs.
Since improving the terms of the proposals, which include a 3.2 billion pound ($4.95 billion) offer to Names designed to offset the cost of Equitas, support among British Names for the plan has grown.
A last-ditch attempt at securing more favourable treatment by a British-based action group floundered last week when the High Court threw out a case for judicial review of the plan.
But in the United States, Lloyd's has for several years faced a raft of litigation. This latest challenge by 100 American Names contends that Lloyd's has breached U.S. disclosure laws.
The insurance market's chief executive, Ron Sandler, is fighting the action personally. He was cross-examined Monday.
Judge Robert Payne criticised the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission for refusing to determine whether Lloyd's should be subject to U.S. securities laws.
The legal challenge was complicated on Friday by the SEC's neutral position on this issue. Payne said the SEC would have a second opportunity to respond to his request for a ruling.
Early Tuesday morning, however, Lloyd's received a boost from a separate court case in New York, which dismissed action brought against the market by four Names. They had claimed that Lloyd's knew long ago the extent of liabilities faced by Names.
"We are pleased by this decision. Names entered into their commitments under UK law and we are pleased that U.S. courts continue to recognise this," said Lloyd's U.S. boss Peter Lane.
The market last week published guidelines for helping those Names who were worst off after accepting its recovery plan.
A.G. Edwards & Sons, Inc.
Algerian forces killed 21 Moslem rebels on Sunday in and near the capital Algiers and one person was wounded when a bomb exploded on Monday in a coffee shop in the country's northeast, Algerian newspapers said.
The evening Algerian newspaper Le Soir d'Algerie said on Tuesday security forces shot dead 16 Moslem guerrillas on Sunday in Ain Naadja suburb and Rais Hamidou area of the capital.
The newspaper Liberte said on Tuesday five other rebels were killed at Sidi el Kebir, near the capital, and security forces seized weapons.
Le Matin said the coffee shop bomb was the second attack on a coffee shop in central Tizi-Ouzou, 90 km (55 miles) east of Algiers.
A rash of bomb attacks against restaurants and coffee shops in Algiers and other towns in July killed more than 20 people, according to Algerian reports.
The government-appointed watchdog body, Human Rights National Observatory (ONDH), was quoted on Monday by el Watan newspaper as saying about 1,400 civilians have been killed in the past two years in bomb attacks, including booby-trapped cars, blamed on Moslem guerrillas.
An estimated 50,000 people, mostly Moslem militants and security forces members, have been killed in Algeria's violence since early 1992 when authorities cancelled a general election in which radical Islamists had taken a commanding lead.
Britain's Thistle Hotels, the group behind such luxury names as London's Grosvenor and Royal Horseguards hotels, on Tuesday began the countdown to a London flotation with plans for a share offer to kick off in September.
Market watchers say a float could value the group at between one and 1.5 billion pounds ($1.5 to $2.3 billion).
Thistle plans to raise 250 million pounds in new cash through the offer. Around 100 to 150 million pounds would be used to reduce debt, with the remaining 100 million invested in expanding room capacity, chief executive Robert Peel said.
"We would focus the money on London -- the region where we get the best returns," he told Reuters.
Thistle also announced half-year pretax pre-exceptional profits of 24.1 million pounds, a near doubling of its earnings in 1995.
But profits were hit after including a one-off charge of 87.8 million to partly account for a 10 percent cut in the valuation of its hotel portfolio to 1.7 billion stg.
Thistle is Britain's second biggest hotel chain, with 100 hotels, most of which are in the London area.
Its main shareholder, Brierley Investments of New Zealand, will cut its controlling 70 percent stake to less than 50 percent under the float plans, Peel said.
The other major investor, an investment arm of the Singapore government, will reduce its 30 percent stake by a similar ratio.
Small retail investors will be a key priority under sell-off plans and will be offered special benefits and discounts by the company.
"We see the retail market as two things. First, it's healthy for a company to have lots of small shareholders. Second, in a service industry we can treat them as our customer base and promote to them," he added.
Thistle said an indicative price range would be announced at the time of the share offer, which has no fixed date so far.
Some market analysts said Thistle could face some difficulty in a market which has seen a wave of flotations this year.
Conglomerate Lonrho Plc said last week that it planned to float its Princess and Metropole chains within two months with a price tag of around 700 million pounds.
Alex Kyriakidis, hotels analyst for consultants Arthur Anderson, has said that Thistle would have to price its float aggressively for a market which is already heavily exposed to an industry enjoying boom sales this year.
But Peel disagreed that demand from investors might have been dulled by earlier floats.
He also denied that a 204.6 million pound asset writedown of property values in its interim results would deter interest, despite representing a 10 percent cut in portfolio values.
1. GDP growth, balance of payments, current account and government budget deficit figures are all for fiscal years, which start on July 1.
2. Unemployment figures are from the Central Bank. Unofficial sources say they are underestimates.
Chilean blue chips staged a mild recovery to close higher on news the Federal Reserve left U.S. interest rates unchanged, with the bolsa expected to stay in positive territory at the opening, said traders.
Investors are now looking to a welter of economic figures on Friday, which they hope will show Chile's robust economic growth is slowing. "As they expect the figures will reflect a slowdown, the market is assimilating the possibility local rates could fall," one trader said.
The selective IPSA index closed up 0.29 percent at 97.99 points. The IGPA index firmed 0.03 percent to 5,388.22 points.
Legg Mason Wood Walker, Inc. said it won $1.375 million of St. Martinville, La., public improvement sales tax revenue bonds, Series 1996, with a net interest cost of 5.149 percent.
The Prague office of Interpol said on Tuesday said it had no evidence that two young women kidnapped in Belgium a year ago were in the Czech Republic.
Speculation in Belgian media has focused on the possibly that they were sold into prostitution in the Czech Republic after being abducted by Marc Dutroux, the chief accused in a child abuse case which has horrified Belgians.
But there were also reports saying leads were under investigation in Germany, the Netherlands, and France.
"We have no evidence that the two girls would be on Czech territory," Vratislav Gregr, vice-director of Czech Interpol told Reuters.
He said Czech national police were handling investigation of the claims, but nothing concrete had been found.
An Marchal and Eefje Lambrecks went missing in August last year at the Belgian port of Ostend. According to an on-line Interpol file, Marchal would now be 19 and Lambrecks 20.
Dutroux, a convicted child abuser, was charged last week with the abduction and illegal imprisonment of two other girls aged 14 and 12.
Dutroux on Saturday led police to the bodies of two other eight-year-old girls who died of starvation earlier this year after their abduction in June, 1995.
Gregr said if Marchal and Lambrecks were found in the country of their own will, the police might not be allowed to contact the girls' families, as both are adults.
"They are of age which means even if they are found, it is up to them whether they would let their families know or those who asked for the investigation of their location. They do not have to do so," Gregr said.
Would-be coalition partners after New Zealand's general election will need to provide clear evidence of a workable deal, ideally in the form of a written accord, Governor-General Sir Michael Hardie Boys says.
"But there would have to be public statements agreeing to support another party so everyone would know the situation that I was relying on," he said in an interview.
"As long as it is clear and unequivocal...so that if it is reneged on, everyone knows."
"Of course parliament has to be summoned within some eight weeks of election date and by that stage it is likely that the government will be formed or that the meeting of parliament will prompt a resolution," he said.
"If it can't be formed, even after some months of negotiation, then parliament might need to be dissolved and another election held. I hope not and don't expect that."
ministers.
Hardie Boys said it would be for party leaders to conduct negotiations.
"Of course if he fails, and it is clear the majority against him is cohesive, then I would be entitled to call on the other group. By cohesive I don't mean that the coalition will clearly last a long time, but at least long enough to get past the first vote of no confidence. I certainly can't require a long term commitment for three years or anything of that kind."
He acknowledged that coalitions could fall apart.
"That could well happen. I would want to be sure as far as I could that it would not dissolve in a week or two. That they really were agreed sufficiently to get on with government."
Opinion polls consistently suggest the National Party will be the biggest in parliament, while short of a majority. A left-wing coalition is unlikely to command a majority, especially as the Alliance has ruled out post-election deals.
In that situation, Prime Minister Jim Bolger would have the option of attempting to govern as a minority.
"I do plan to be here (in Government House) in front of the television set to see what happens. I have tried to discourage the notion that everyone should get on the telephone and ring me up and say 'hey what about me?'"
"Yes, I would accept that, particularly if it survived a confidence vote."
He said if no grouping could retain confidence in parliament, another election would probably have to be called and the incumbent would continue as a caretaker.
Constitutional conventions indicate a caretaker government makes no major policy decisions and no major appointments, but Hardie Boys said: "Even a caretaker government could stay in office until it loses a confidence vote."
Given his pivotal role, what will he be doing on election night?
Shares of South Korea's SEOULBANK were little changed in Tuesday's morning trading despite news that debt-ridden Kun Young Construciton Corp has agreed "in principle" to be taken over by unlisted Dongsung Constructon Co Ltd, brokers said.
SEOULBANK is Kun Young's main creditor.
Note - Acer Computer International Ltd is a unit of Taiwanese computer giant Acer Inc.
Germany's Bundesbank is highly likely to lower its main money market interest rate this week, finally following through on a promise made in April to cut the rate when conditions allowed, economists said on Tuesday.
They said a marked slowdown in the headline growth rate for M3 money supply in July, combined with low inflation and an uneasy economic upturn, meant that the climate was now right for a cut of up to 10-20 basis points in the repo rate.
In a Reuter poll of 10 economists, eight believed a small cut in the 3.30 percent rate was on the cards when the central bank council meets on Thursday after a four-week summer break.
"An interest rate cut is appropriate. The M3 figures were in line with expectations and would not block a repo easing," said Norbert Braems, senior economist at BZW in Frankfurt.
The Bundesbank said today annualised M3 money supply growth dropped to 8.6 percent in July from 9.6 percent in June.
Inflation has been running at about 1.5 percent for several months and there is no fear of it gaining pace any time soon.
Although July's M3 growth was still above a seven percent target ceiling, analysts said the figure was encouraging as it meant the central bank could reach its goal by the year-end.
Signs of a slowdown in M3 were a stated condition for the Bundesbank to lower the repo rate, the rate at which central bank funds are made available to German banks.
The rate has been held at 3.30 percent since February, even though the central bank lowered official discount and Lombard rates -- the floor and ceiling for money market rates -- to 2.50 and 4.50 percent respectively in April.
Ulrich Beckmann at DB Research responded warmly to the M3 data. "It was at the lower end of our expectation, which was 8.6 to 9.1 percent," he said.
"It is now very clear that we have a very good chance to reach the Bundesbank target zone (of four to seven percent growth for 1996). I think there is a very good chance that we will see a cut in the repo rate," he added.
Uwe Angenendt, economist at BHF-Bank in Frankfurt, agreed. "Monetary expansion has slowed considerably. This is a very good sign for the Bundesbank on Thursday. I expect a repo rate cut of 10 to 20 basis points."
But economists said the final decision could depend on consumer confidence data from the respected Ifo institute, due on Wednesday. Economists expect the business climate index to show at best a small improvement in July.
"M3 will help to argue for cut. But tomorrow's Ifo figures will be more influential as far as a repo cut is concerned," said Ros Lifton at Daiwa Europe in London.
Analysts expect the index to climb slightly to around 91.0, after hitting a three-month low at 90.4 in June.
Although the Bundesbank does not follow an anti-cyclical policy -- lowering rates at any sign of economic weakness -- the current low-inflation environment leaves the Bundesbank fairly free to use its policy to help the economic recovery.
It often refers to Ifo data in its reports.
"The Bundesbank will not have any better arguments for easing rates in future than on Thursday," said Norbert Meissner at Caisse des Depots et Consignations in Frankfurt.
"The inflationary environment is good and if the Bundesbank wants to help the economy it had better act now."
But a minority of economists, possibly wary that the central bank appeared four weeks ago to prepare markets for a repo cut, but then failed to deliver the goods, said they had now given up expecting a further easing at all this cycle.
Armin Kayser at SBC Warburg said he was also extremely sceptical there would be any economic impact from such a move.
"A cut by a few basis points will not stimulate the economy and it may be that the economy doesn't even need it," he said.
These are the leading stories in the Tunisian press on Tuesday. Reuters has not verified these stories and does not vouch for their accuracy.
- President Zine al-Abidine Ben Ali recommends new measures to face overproduction in some agricultural products this season.
- President Ben Ali discusses the 1997 budget draft with Finances Minister Nouri Zorgati.
- Overproduction in tomatoes this season.
- President Ben Ali recommends studies for computer applications development.
The tenge rose to 67.4136 per dollar on the Kazakhstan Currency Exchange from 67.7601 on Monday.
T.A.L Investment Counsel Ltd said in a Securities and Exchange Commission filing on Tuesday that it holds a 8.49 percent stake in Moore Corp Ltd, or 8,351,999 common shares.
T.A.L. disclosed its latest position on Moore in a 13G filing.
Filings under 13G are usually made by institutions and large investors with "passive" investment objectives in a company. Unlike 13D filings, those reports do not list the latest transactions.
The European Regional Airlines Association(ERA) said it expects to 450 aviation industry delegates to attend its annual meeting in Hanover.
More than 100 airline delegates are expected at the October 2-4 meeting at Hanover Airport, the association said.
The keynote speaker will be Swissair president Otto Loepfe and other issues being covered will include the Internet and the environment, according to the preliminary programme.
A cougar mauled a Canadian woman to death after she intervened to save her 6-year-old son who was being attacked, police said on Tuesday.
Cindy Parolin, 36, was horseback-riding with her three children in the southern British Columbia interior on Monday night when a cougar sprang from the bush at her young son.
The boy was thrown from his horse and the cougar began mauling the child. Parolin tried to beat the beast with a stick and the cougar then turned on her, the Royal Canadian Mounted Police said.
Parolin shouted to her 11-year-old daughter and 13-year-old son to carry the injured boy to safety.
They made it back to the family car about a mile (two km) away and the older son returned with several people who were camping nearby to help his mother.
One man located Parolin by following her cries for help. "The cougar was still on top of the mother nearly an hour after the attack. The man managed to scare the cougar off after shooting it," the police said.
Parolin was pronounced dead on arrival at the hospital in Princeton, British Columbia, about 120 miles (200 km) east of Vancouver. The injured 6-year-old, whose name was not released, was in stable condition with severe lacerations to his head and puncture wounds on his back.
The cougar, wounded by gunshots, was later tracked and killed by wildlife officials.
Parolin and her three children had been heading to a camp about a mile (two km) away where her husband and fourth child were waiting.
UK credit card expenditure was up nine percent year-on-year at 3.9 billion stg in July, less buoyant growth than expected, but spending with debit cards rose 26 percent, the Credit Card Research Group said.
Overall spending on plastic cards was up 16 percent at 6.9 billion stg in July.
"Expenditure was particularly buoyant in the High Street, where consumers spent four billion stg on goods -- up 19 percent from July 1995 -- reflecting the effect of tax cuts and the favourable economic environment of recent months," the group said.
Cardholders spent a total of 2.8 billion stg on services, an increase of 11 percent on July 1995.
These are the leading stories in the Moroccan press on Tuesday. Reuters has not verified these stories and does not vouch for their accuracy.
- King Hassan to deliver speech on 43rd anniversary of the revolution of the king and the people marking Morocco's fight against French protectorate.
- Tunisian Prime Minister expected in Morocco soon.
- Referendum over split of parliament into two chambers might be held mid-September.
- What is the point of arresting and sentencing drug traffickers in absence of global strategy?.
- King Hassans pardons 570 prisoners and commutes sentences of 22 others, on day marking the 43rd anniversary of the revolution of the king and the people.
Governor-General Sir Michael Hardie Boys said New Zealand may eventually opt to change the rules governing parliament so a vote of no-confidence would be taken only if there was a new government in waiting.
"Maybe experience will bring everybody to realise that should be done. It would make my position much easier," he said.
The governor-general has "reserve powers" to appoint or dismiss a prime minister or in special circumstances to refuse a dissolution of parliament. All other decisions must be taken on the advice of ministers.
Hardie Boys noted that even a caretaker government could remain in office until it lost a confidence vote.
The U.S. Federal Reserve met on Tuesday to discuss the future course of interest rates and was widely expected to keep rates steady amid mixed signals on the economy.
"The speeches made by various Fed governors and by bank presidents recently are not pointing toward tightening," said Preston Martin, chairman of HomeVest Financial Services Inc. in San Francisco.
"I would think the odds are very heavily weighted toward the prospect that there will be no change at the next policy-making meeting," said Martin, a former Fed vice chairman.
The central bank's policy-making Federal Open Market Committee (FOMC) started meeting at 9 a.m. EDT (1300 GMT). If past practice is followed, any decision should be announced around 2:15 p.m. EDT (1815 GMT).
Martin's forecast was shared unanimously by the 30 economists polled last week by Reuters, although some of those experts did not rule out a rate rise later this year.
Financial markets marked time Tuesday morning as they awaited the outcome of the central bank meeting, with bond and stock prices little changed.
The Fed meeting takes place at a time when questions abound about whether the economy is beginning to cool off after growing at a fast clip in the second quarter.
Until just a few weeks ago, many economists believed the economy was growing quickly enough to require an interest-rate rise by the Fed to slow it down and prevent inflation. However, a series of recent reports containing early signs of a slowdown changed those views.
The latest came on Tuesday, with news that the U.S. trade deficit fell by more than 20 percent in June as imports plunged. Analysts said the steep drop in imports pointed to slackening domestic demand and a slowing U.S. economy.
"We had data very recently showing the housing market is starting to fade and the inflation reports were good," said Joel Prakken, chairman at the St. Louis forecasting firm Macroeconomic Advisors LLC.
"All of that suggests we are seeing a slowdown from the second quarter and that the Fed does not need to move," he added.
Some experts, however, said the economic signs were inconclusive and did not rule out a rate rise later this year.
Any rate increase would represent a reversal in the Fed's monetary policy. The previous rate change was in January, the last of a series of credit easings undertaken when the economy appeared soft. The economy has rebounded strongly since then.
The federal funds rate, which commercial banks charge each other for overnight cash, is now at 5.25 percent. The funds rate is controlled by the Fed and acts as a benchmark for other short-term interest rates.
The discount rate, which the Fed charges member banks for loans, stands at 5 percent.
NOTE - The building society group reported that gross mortgage lending for the period was 4.8 billion stg, with net mortgage lending of 585 million. It also stated that underlying profit growth for the first six months of 1996 was six percent ahead, stripping out exceptionals.
World chess champion Garry Kasparov will play IBM's supercomputer Deep Blue next year in a $1.1 million re-match of last February's historic contest, IBM said on Tuesday.
An IBM spokeswoman said the six-game match would be played at the Millennium hotel in New York on May 3-10, with $700,000 going to the winner and $400,000 to the loser.
In Philadelphia last February, the powerful machine -- capable of looking at 200 million possible moves per second -- created chess history when it became the first computer program to defeat a grandmaster in classical chess format, in which games can last several hours.
Kasparov recovered from the first game defeat and eventually won the contest and $400,000 with three wins and two draws in the remaining games. The IBM team of scientists and programmers were awarded $100,000.
The Philadelphia match, part of the 50th anniversary celebrations of the Association of Computing and Machinery, drew hundreds of spectators and an estimated one million "hits" on a website retrieved by fans all over the world.
"The first match was to test the Deep Blue technology," said C.J. Tan, manager of the IBM team. "Scientifically, our experiment was extremely successful. We learned a lot from dueling Kasparov. We have now refined our technology and are in the process of strengthening our game."
IBM's purpose in the first match was to test parallel computing systems intended for use in such diverse areas as the manufacture of new drugs for the pharmaceutical industry and air traffic control.
Kasparov, who characterized the match as a battle between human intuition and the brute force of a huge calculating machine, said he welcomed the prospect of a re-match.
"I look forward to taking on IBM's new and more powerful machine and hope to prove that human knowledge, intuition, creativity and imagination can overcome the incredible capacity of the new machine," Kasparov said in a statement.
IBM spokeswoman Marcy Holle said spectators in New York could watch the games on screens in the Hudson Theater adjoining the hotel. Kasparov, 33, has previously played in the theater. In 1990, the first half of his world championship match against fellow Russian grandmaster and arch-rival Anatoly Karpov took place there.
But Kasparov broke ties with the International Chess Federation, known by its French acronym FIDE, in 1993 to form the Professional Chess Association (PCA). He successfully defended his PCA title in New York in October 1995 against Indian challenger Viswanathan Anand.
The chess world was split between Kasparov as champion of the PCA and Karpov, who retained his FIDE crown in June when he defeated Russian-born U.S. grandmaster Gata Kamsky in a match held in the former Soviet republic of Kalmykia.
A Taiwan television station on Tuesday showed film of Vice-President Lien Chan at a university in Ukraine, ending a two-day mystery over his whereabouts.
State-funded Taiwan Television said Lien's visit was arranged by the university, indicating it was unofficial, but said Lien had met Ukrainian officials and was awaiting a meeting with Ukrainian President Leonid Kuchma.
None of the officials who Lien met was identified by name.
A former Soviet republic, Ukraine recognises the Chinese communist government in Beijing, not Taiwan's exiled Republic of China, but has made clear its desire for better ties with Taiwan and its powerful export-driven economy.
China, which regards Taiwan as a rebel province not entitled to foreign relations, has sternly criticised countries that have entertained visits by Lien and other Taiwan leaders.
Operations at Saudi Arabia's second largest export refinery at Jubail should return to normal on Wednesday following a small fire at the refinery's hydro-cracking unit, a company official said on Tuesday.
"We had a small fire (on Saturday) but it didn't disturb exports. We had naphtha in our tanks and we used our stocks. We will resume operations tomorrow," he told Reuters.
The Jubail refinery will shut down in November for 30 days of scheduled maintenance to change the catalyst used at the plant's main hydrocracking unit.
The official said the company used the fire as an opportunity to inspect the unit ahead of the November work.
Jubail is jointly operated by Saudi Aramco and Royal Dutch/Shell Group.
Italian shares rebounded from Monday's losses on Tuesday in a largely technical reaction, but also helped by official data showing that inflationary pressures were less than analysts had anticipated during June.
Stocks edged higher this morning in continued thin holiday trading and then were supported by a touch firmer Wall Street, but many investors had eyes only for today's U.S. FOMC meeting, although most expect no rise in U.S. interest rates.
The all-share Mibtel index ended up 0.5 percent at 9,593 and the blue chip Mib30 index 0.56 percent higher at 14,329, after they lost 1.16 percent and 1.36 percent on Monday.
Shares dipped Monday after the hard-left Communists said Romano Prodi's centre-left government had only a 50 percent chance of surviving this autumn, but today better than expected inflation data gave support to stocks, dealers said.
Italian June annual producer prices rose 0.6 percent after May's 1.3 percent, while June annual wholesale inflation increased 2.4 percent in June against 3.5 percent in May. Both June figures were below market expectations.
Market focus is now likely to be on Italian preliminary August consumer price inflation, with six cities reporting on Wednesday and the remaining four on Thursday.
Dealers said activity will continue to be subdued due to political uncertainty over the Communist Refoundation Party, who's support the government has relied upon in the lower house, and with many market players still on holiday.
Most blue chips moved forward in quiet holiday trading with ENI up 0.16 percent at 6,690 lire after it said it had sold five percent of oilfield service arm Saipem to bring ENI's stake down to 75 percent. Montedison was up 1.45 percent at 995 lire.
Pirelli shares rose 1.79 percent to 2,500 lire after it and Michelin tied for best overall passenger tyres in a U.S. consumer survey by market research firm J.D. Power.
Leading European cartonboard manufacturer Mayr-Melnhof Karton AG (MMK) said on Tuesday it had bought a 70 percent stake in folding carton producer Solnice Papirny S.P. of the Czech Republic.
Deputy chief executive Alfred Fogarassy said MMK is poised to announce further acquisitions of production sites in two Eastern European countries.
"We're very close to making an announcement," Fogarassy told journalists at MMK's half-year earnings conference.
Fogarassy declined to reveal the price for its Solnice stake, which has been taken over by MMK subsidiary E. Schausberger & Co GmbH.
The Czech plant near Hradec Kralove could also export to Poland and the Ukraine, he said, adding MMK plans "a wide-reaching investment programme." He gave no details.
The government is expected to report a trade deficit for July of around $350 million, about unchanged from June, a local financial newspaper said.
This would bring the trade deficit for the year to date to $600 million, in line with market forecasts of a trade gap of $1-$2 billion for the full year, Gazeta Mercantil said.
Exports in July amounted to around $4.46 billion, while imports were around $4.8 billion, it said.
Ampolex Ltd said on Tuesday it had been advised by Mobil Corp that it would extend its takeover offer for Ampolex's ordinary shares and the 5.5 percent convertible redeemable preference shares by five days.
The bid would now close on September 3.
The offer, now unconditional, saw Mobil bidding A$4.64 per Ampolex ordinary share and A$4.66 per preference share.
As at August 19, Mobil was entitled to 99.23 percent of the ordinary shares and 99.9 percent of the preference shares.
Ampolex shares closed steady at A$4.66.
U.S. Treasuries finished lower on Monday on the eve of a Federal Reserve meeting at which policymakers are expected to leave interest rates unchanged.
Market analysts said selling by hedge funds and central banks pushed prices lower early in the session. After that, prices stabilized at their lower levels, quietly trading in extremely narrow ranges for the remainder of the session.
There was no new economic data. As usual, Fed officials made no public comments immediately ahead of their Federal Open Market Committee (FOMC) policy meeting.
"The activity on the way down ... was pretty heavy for a summer Monday, particularly one with no data being released," said analysts at Stone & McCarthy Research Associates.
But a test of further downside in the mid-morning found no followthrough and traders began to settle in from there to wait out the outcome of Tuesday's FOMC meeting, they said.
Prices did edge up from session lows but several factors might have hurt efforts to lift prices further, said analysts.
First, the Commodity Research Bureau's (CRB) index of commodity futures prices rose a sharp 2.42 points to 251.97, a noticeable event for the inflation-wary bond market.
"Then (Republican presidential candidate Bob) Dole made a surprising gain in the (voter public opinion) polls," said Josh Stiles, senior bond strategist at I.D.E.A., an independent economic advisory firm.
Stiles said no doubt many people think a Dole presidency would be good for the financial markets but "there are more people who find his shift in emphasis from budget-cutting to tax-cutting is not bond-friendly."
Also, most economic data released in the last week "came in a little stronger than expected," Stiles said.
Stiles cited "some uneasiness" about how low the jobless claims trend has been. He said that wariness was appropriate.
The four-week moving average for new jobless claims fell to a seven-year low in the week ended August 10, the government reported on Thursday.
"As the weeks go by, it's harder to discount the low level of new claims as aberrant," said Stiles.
And while analysts appear unanimous in their expectation that the Fed will leave interest rates unchanged at the FOMC meeting on Tuesday, they are more divided about the future.
Jim Glassman, senior economist at Chase Securities Inc, said Fed policymakers appear reluctant to signal a change in the direction of policy just yet because they assume that economic growth will slow to two percent and unemployment will remain around 5-1/2 percent.
"Even so, all roads seem to be leading to higher rates," Glassman said. "Consumers have spending power and the drop in new jobless claims implies the economy is robust, he said.
"More important for the direction of interest rates, the economy already is operating at a level of resource use that has proven in the past to be inflationary," said Glassman.
At the close, three- and six-month bill rates were each up one basis point to 5.05 percent and 5.12 percent, respectively. The one-year bill rate rose two basis poitns to 5.34 percent.
The 6-1/4 percent two-year note slipped 1/32 to 100-17/32, its yield at 5.95 percent.
The five-year note fell 3/32 to close at 101-8/32, yielding 6.33 percent. The 10-year note closed at 103-1/32, down 6/32 to yield 6.58 percent.
The benchmark 6-3/4 30-year Treasury bond closed at 99-13/32, down 12/32, its yield at 6.80 percent.
Lloyd's of London was braced on Tuesday for a possible ruling in a crucial United States court case, which threatens at the last minute to upset a recovery plan for the 300-year-old insurance market.
Tens of thousands of investors in Lloyd's worldwide are anxiously awaiting the outcome of the case in Virginia, where U.S. investors (Names) have applied for an injunction to stop the recovery plan in its tracks.
Under its rescue proposals, Lloyd's is to reinsure billions of pounds in liabilities, including pollution and asbestosis- related claims in the U.S., into a new company called Equitas.
Names have only eight days left in which to accept or reject this plan, on which the future of the market hangs.
Since improving the terms of the proposals, which include a 3.2 billion pounds ($4.95 billion) offer to Names designed to offset the cost of Equitas, support among British Names for the plan has grown.
A last ditch attempt at securing more favourable treatment by a British-based action group floundered last week, when the High Court threw out a case for judicial review of the plan.
But in the U.S., Lloyd's has for several years faced a giant raft of litigation. This latest challenge by 100 American Names contends that Lloyd's has breached U.S. disclosure laws.
The insurance market's chief executive Ron Sandler is fighting the action personally. He was cross-examined on Monday.
Judge Robert Payne in that sitting criticised the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission for refusing to determine whether Lloyd's should be subject to U.S. securities laws.
The legal challenge was complicated on Friday by the SEC's neutral position on this issue. Payne said the SEC would have a second opportunity to respond to his request for a ruling.
Early on Tuesday morning, however, Lloyd's received a boost from a separate court case in New York, which dismissed action brought against the market by four Names. They had claimed that Lloyd's knew long ago the extent of liabilities faced by Names.
"We are pleased by this decision. Names entered into their commitments under UK law and we are pleased that U.S. courts continue to recognise this," said Lloyd's U.S. boss Peter Lane.
In Britain, meanwhile, a former Name heading an action group of loss-making investors, has hit out at Lloyd's for "breaking promises" he says were made to the hardest-hit Names.
The outspoken chairman of the Lloyd's Names Associations' Working Party and the deputy leader of the Lloyd's Defence Shield, Christopher Stockwell, ended weeks of silence with the charge Lloyd's has "reneged" on income and housing pledges.
Stockwell said the scheme was entirely dependent on the availability of future funds. This meant Lloyd's could end the scheme any time, which amounted to no formal commitment.
He also claimed fewer than 20 percent of Names have so far accepted the recovery plan. Lloyd's rejected both statements.
The market last week published guidelines for helping those Names who were worst off after accepting its recovery plan.
Saskatchewan grain crops still lagged behind the average pace of growth despite favorable weather in the week ended August 19, the Saskatchewan Wheat Pool said in its weekly crop update.
About 30 percent of spring wheat and 35 percent of durum have matured, against the five-year averages of 47 and 53 percent, respectively, it said. Ninety-four percent of winter wheat and 98 percent of fall rye were mature, compared with the normal 100 percent maturity at this date.
Flax, oats and barley also lagged the five-year averages while canola growth was slightly ahead of average, it said.
Swathing of fall rye and winter wheat was nearly complete, and 10 percent of spring wheat and 20 percent of canola had been swathed in the southwest.
By the end of this week, many parts of the province will begin swathing early seeded crops, it said.
Reports from the Humboldt area indicated barley yields coming in well above average, the report said.
Bertha armyworm had damaged some late-seeded canola and disease problems were also evident in northeast areas, it said.
Kobe rubber futures were mostly up in after-hours trade on Tuesday, lifted by sporadic bargain-hunting after nearby months hit their life-of-contract lows earlier in the day, traders said.
Prices ranged from 0.1 yen per kg lower to 1.0 yen firmer than the day's close. Benchmark January was unchanged at 137.5 yen. Activity was lacklustre with 5,458 lots traded.
The market opened mixed with nearby months hurt by continued selling pressure. But a view that the market has been oversold helped prices to rebound, sending most prices into positive territory in after-hours trade, they said.
Agriculture Secretariat weekly estimate, to August 14, of shipments (1995/96 except for sunseed), export commitments (1995/96) and purchases by exporters in indicated crop years (thousands of tonnes).
Israel's housing ministry is drafting a plan to approve construction of 5,000 new homes in the Palestinian occupied West Bank, a spokesman said on Tuesday.
"We are speaking about a plan of 20,000 apartments in central Israel, about 5,000 of which would fall east of the Green Line," housing spokesman Amir Dobkin told Reuters.
The Green Line was the Jewish state's eastern border before Israel occupied the West Bank in the 1967 Middle East war.
Dobkin said that Deputy Housing Minister Meir Porush described the old border as "theoretical" and wanted it erased.
He said the homes would be built by the private sector but that government funds could be used for infrastructure if necessary.
The spokesman said the plan was under preparation and would be presented to Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu's government for approval later in the year.
"We are pretty sure the plan will be accepted," he said.
Netanyahu's office declined comment on the plan and said it would clarify its stance upon receiving the proposal.
In a move that angered Palestinians, Israeli Defence Minister Yitzhak Mordechai this month approved placing 298 mobile homes in Jewish settlements on occupied lands.
The move was the government's first action on settlements since Netanyahu in August lifted a freeze on settlement building in the West Bank imposed by the previous government which made peace deals with the Palestine Liberation Organisation.
Palestinians, who hope to eventually establish an independent state in the West Bank and Gaza Strip, regard the 130,000 Jews living amidst nearly two million Palestinians in those areas as an obstacle to peace.
A British tourist drowned off the coast of Cyprus on Tuesday while swimming with his wife and daughter, police in the resort town of Paphos said.
Robert Michail Mcguire, 47, from London, was staying with his family at Venus Hotel in the west coast town of Paphos.
A police officer said the sea was rough when the family went for an evening swim.
"When people see large waves they don't think of their safety they're just concerned with enjoying themselves," the police officer said.
Denmark's central bank made no new 14-day money market offer on Tuesday, thus keeping its key two-week rate unchanged at 3.70 percent.
The bank steers money market rates and liquidity through its 14-day certificates of deposit (CDs) deals and state paper repos.
The central bank discount and key deposit rates were unchanged at 3.25 percent.
Bangladesh taka closed easier at 42.2350/42.2450 to the dollar in interbank trading against its previous close of 42.2250/42.2400, dealers said.
They said the taka remained mostly steady after opening at 42.2320/42.2450 as the demand for dollars did not pick up.
The interbank call money rates closed down at 4.25 percent to 5.25 percent against the previous 5.0-5.75 percent, dealers said.
Australian Labor Opposition Senate leader John Faulkner said on Tuesday that Mal Colston, a Labor senator who resigned from the party earlier in the day, had indicated he would support the party in the Senate.
Faulkner said Colston had been pre-selected and endorsed by Labor for decades and the Labor party expected him to show a minimal amount of loyalty on the floor of the Senate.
"We will demand of Senator Colston that he show that minimal level of loyalty to the party that has supported him in public life for so long," Faulkner said.
"My voting pattern in that chamber will be influenced by my long held Labor beliefs, by an acceptance that the present government has an electoral mandate to pursue a number of issues and by what I judge to be the most appropriate course of action for the people of Queensland (state)," he said in statement.
Colston was unavailable for further comment.
The Labor opposition and minor parties hold the balance of power in the Senate and have pledged to block some of the new Liberal-National government's reforms, including the partial privatisation of Telecommunications carrier Telstra Corp.
King Hussein went to the north of Jordan on Tuesday to receive pledges of loyalty from officials and tribal leaders in the wake of rioting in the south that has led to widespread arrests.
King Hussein, repeatedly cheered by a crowd assembled on a plain outside Ramtha town near the Syrian border, said Jordanians had shown it was "one great country always resolutely standing together in the face of all threats."
The king, who has vowed to crush the riots that followed a government decision to double bread prices, said the country had stood for "dialogue and democracy and respect for human rights under the order of law in the face of all commotion."
Tribal elders and local officials gave speeches of praise and loyalty, part of an effort to show the king's continued popularity. State media carried scores of "loyalty and support" cables to the king from municipality chiefs, dignitaries and leading tribesmen -- his traditional bedrock support.
Armoured vehicles continued to patrol the southern city of Karak, the centre of two days of unrest that shook the kingdom last weekend, but security forces eased a curfew.
"As of today people will be allowed to move for 10 hours a day at different intervals, from two hours at present. This will be increased depending on the situation before it is totally lifted when authorities deem that possible," an official said.
Security forces had detained up to 150 people since Friday, including 100 in Karak, an official said. Many were released while others will face trial, he said. Karak residents said 300 people had been detained but many were already free.
At least 14 leaders of a pro-Iraqi party blamed by King Hussein for inciting the riots had been arrested, officials said.
The Jordanian Arab Socialist Baath Party has rejected the king's accusations. Government critics and demonstrators said the unrest stemmed from rising economic hardship.
An Iraqi radio report, monitored by the British Broadcasting Corporation, denied Iraq was involved and accused the Jordanian government of bringing trouble on itself by unpopular policies.
Iraq's "Mother of Battles Radio", a service for the Arab world, said on Monday night the rioting had been an explosion of popular anger with no outside intervention.
Once close relations between Jordan and Iraq collapsed a year ago after King Hussein gave refuge to defectors from Baghdad, including two sons-in-law of President Saddam Hussein, and called for change in Iraq.
King Hussein last week suspended the summer session of parliament, vowed an "iron fist" response to the country's worst unrest since 1989 and threw his weight behind the government of Prime Minister Abdul-Karim al-Kabariti who is trying to implement reforms backed by the International Monetary Fund.
Shares of Yaohan International Holdings Ltd (YIH) surged on Tuesday after the company announced plans to privatise its 41.95 percent-owned department store operator Yaohan Hongkong Corp Ltd.
"Market makers were seen boosting the price to encourage shareholders in the department store firm to exchange their shares for YIH shares," said a sales manager at a local brokerage.
The shares rose HK$0.14 or 18.18 percent to hit a morning high of HK$0.91 before fixing at HK$0.90 at midday. Volume was 582,000 shares.
Analysts said expectations that privatisation of the loss-making unit would help relieve YIH's financial burden aided demand.
YIH has offered 451 new YIH shares for every 1,000 Yaohan Hongkong shares or a cash payment of HK$0.381 per share.
The Banco de Mexico completed all five of its credit auctions on the secondary market on Tuesday.
Poland's 1996 grain harvest is expected to be around 24 million tonnes, about two million tonnes less than last year's 25.9 million, Agriculture Minister Roman Jagielinski said on Tuesday.
Unaudited results of Tea Smallholder Factories Limited for the first quarter of the 1996/1997 financial year.
NOTE: Tea Smallholder Factories manufactures tea.
selected terminals/elevators, in 1,000 bushels.
An Italian-Egyptian joint venture has found more natural gas in the Port Fouad offshore concession in the Mediterranean, the Oil Ministry said on Tuesday.
The company is Petrobel/Belayim Petroleum, a 50-50 venture between state Egyptian General Petroleum Corp (EGPC) and International Egyptian Oil Co (IEOC), the Egyptian subsidiary of Agip SpA, the ministry said in a statement.
The find is 15 km (eight miles) north of the Port Fouad field, where Petrobel started producing oil and gas in May, and 55 km (30 miles) northeast of Port Said city.
The ministry said a well named Barracuda 1 testedZat 25 million cubic feet of gas a day at depths of between 1,450 and 1,800 metres (4,750 and 5,900 feet). The gas-producing layers are 53 metres (174 feet) thick, it added.
The discovery is the latest in the offshore concessions north of the Nile Delta, an area which oil executives say shows signs of becoming a world-class gas basin.
Earlier this month, Belayim's offshore Darfil-1 (Dolphin-1) discovery well yielded 40 million cfd at a depth of between 1,350 metres and 2,200 metres.
A second test well, Norus-1 (Seagull-1) yielded 29 million cfd at a depth of between 650 metres and 1,650 metres, the statement added. Both wells were drilled in about 30 metres of water and were within five km of the Port Fouad field.
Prices of Russian MinFin bonds eased on Tuesday in a correction after last week's rise and dealers said uncertainty about President Boris Yeltsin's health had little impact on the market.
The Russian Security Council of top officials, whose secretary is Alexander Lebed, issued a statement casting doubt on the authenticity of Yeltsin's recent orders on Chechnya, where fighters want independence from Russia.
The presidential press service said the Kremlin leader had started a two-day break in northwestern Russia.
"The market is not especially concerned about Yeltsin's health. The fall is not rapid. It is just a correction after the rise as the market, known to be volatile, cannot grow two points every day," Eurobank dealer Olivier Coursault said.
"There is no negative news around. Everybody is still awaiting (Russia's) Eurobonds, and there should be a confirmation the International Monetary Fund is giving its July tranche of the ($10 billion) loan," he added.
Other dealers said some buying interest was still evident on the market, mainly from abroad.
"The market is going both ways. Russian banks are generally selling, with foreigners buying immediately, but then prices are going down without trading," a Russian bank dealer said.
"Some impact of Yeltsin news is possible as prices were too high (after last week's rise)," he added.
Dealers said the MinFin bond market was showing little concern about the U.S. Federal Open Market Committee (FOMC) meeting, which began at 1300 GMT.
"Russian operators are not looking straight at the meeting, those in the West may do," the Russian bank dealer said.
Coursault said most of the market was not concerned about the FOMC meeting, and traders did not believe interest rates would be raised.
Smith Barney Inc.
Rauscher Pierce Refsnes, Inc.
No closures of airports in the Commonwealth of Independent States are expected on August 21 and August 22, the Russian Weather Service said on Tuesday.
State-owned National Power Corp (Napocor) forecast net income will grow by 6.4 percent this year to 4.153 billion pesos from 3.9 billion pesos in 1995, documents submitted to Congress showed on Tuesday.
The documents also predicted net income will grow by a further 72 percent to 7.143 billion pesos in 1997.
In the first half of 1996, Napocor's net income was 3.401 billion pesos versus 2.445 billion pesos in the year-ago period.
Profits will be driven by a 27 percent growth in net utility revenues to 66.523 billion pesos in 1996, and by a 31 percent increase to 87.411 billion pesos in 1997.
Napocor projected its sales will reach 32,549 gigawatthours (gwh) in 1996 and 37,141 gwh in 1997, with an average selling rate of 2.0438 pesos per kilowatthour in 1996 and 2.3535 pesos in 1997.
The power firm is allotting 22.753 billion pesos in debt payments this year and another 25.094 billion pesos next year.
CompuServe Corp. Tuesday reported a surprisingly large $29.6 million fiscal first-quarter loss, blaming a decline in the number of subscribers to the No. 2 online service and spending on a new family-oriented service and improvements.
CompuServe predicted a second-quarter loss but said earnings would improve in the second half of the fiscal year.
"We are taking steps to revitalise CompuServe," said Chief Executive Bob Massey.
The company said it would cut 150 jobs, or 4 percent of its work force, as part of a cost-cutting programme expected to save $30 million on an annualized basis.
The Columbus, Ohio-based company said that as part of the cost cuts it would sell its Spry Inc. unit, whose Web browser trails far behind similar products made by Netscape Communications Corp. and Microsoft Corp.
The loss of $29.6 million, or 32 cents a share, in the company's fiscal 1997 first quarter ended July 31 compared with last year's quarterly profit of $26.8 million, or 36 cents a share. The results included a pretax charge of $17.7 million, or 13 cents per share.
CompuServe last month said it expected to post a loss for the quarter, but the actual loss was greater than Wall Street expectations.
The company reported revenues of $208.6 million for the quarter vs. $186.5 million in the previous year's quarter.
Massey, expanding on last month's comments, said the number of people cancelling their subscriptions exceeded the 900,000 new subscribers to the company's online services, producing a "modest decline" in subscriber numbers.
As of July 31, the company's flagship CompuServe Information Service had 3.3 million members worldwide, the company said. Total subscribers, including members of NiftyServe, a joint-venture Japanese online service, numbered 5.2 million.
CompuServe, founded in 1969, is second only to America Online Inc., with 6.2 million subscribers.
CompuServe also blamed the loss on investments in its family-oriented WOW! service and infrastructure improvements.
It said it expected losses to continue into the second fiscal quarter, hitting 10 cents to 15 cents a share, due to the costs of rolling out the latest version of the software needed to access the service, Compuserve 3.0, and the release of a feature that makes WOW! look different to teenagers than it does to their parents.
But the forecast for the second half of its fiscal year was rosier.
"Coupled with new product releases and aggressive marketing campaigns, we expect the third and fourth quarters to improve with subscribers topping the 7-million mark, including our Japanese licensee service, NiftyServe," Massey said in a statement.
The company said it also expected increased revenue from advertising and fees for electronic commerce.
CompuServe is a former subsidiary of tax preparer H&R Block Inc., which spun off the company and is selling its 80 percent stake in CompuServe.
CompuServe announced its financial results after markets closed. Its stock dropped 12.5 cents to $13.50 on Nasdaq in earlier trading.
Rhode Island Treasurer Nancy Mayer said Tuesday she is anticipating that a $200 million investment in a combination of convertible and high yield bonds would give equity-like return.
Rhode Island selected Boston-based Loomis, Sayles & Co to be the fund manager for a program that blends two-thirds high- yield bonds with one-third convertible bonds "to give equity- like returns with much less volatility," said Mayer in a State House interview. "I think over the last five years, they have been averaging 17 to 18 percent."
The new fund will add diversity to the fixed-income portion of the approximately $4.4 billion public pension fund. Some 36 percent or $1.6 billion of the pension money is invested in fixed-income securities, Mayer's office said.
Singapore's non-oil domestic exports rose a nominal 6.4 percent year-on-year in July to Singapore $7.28 billion after falling 6.1 percent in June, the Trade Development Board (TDB) said on Tuesday.
In real terms, non-oil exports rose 10.1 percent in July to S$9.3 billion after falling 2.1 in June.
Singapore's major markets for non-oil domestic exports in nominal terms (at current prices).
Latin Brady bonds came under light selling from retreating U.S. Treasuries, while Russia and East European debt prices were slightly mixed.
Markets were closed in Argentina, Venezuela and Colombia for national holidays.
Adding to the torpor, emerging markets traders took to the sidelines ahead of the Federal Open Market Committee meeting on Tuesday and the Bundesbank's council meeting on Thursday, traders said.
While most Fed watchers expect no change in U.S. rates, Bundesbank observers have not ruled out slight easing, said a U.S. bank trader.
"Some liquidity help from the Bundesbank could add fuel to the emerging markets," he said.
A steady inflow into funds specializing in emerging markets has been one of the most encouraging developments this summer, he said, adding: "Global liquidity consideration would have more short-term impact (on emerging market debts) than data out of any one country."
The most liquid Latin American issues slipped slighty, with Argentine FRBs ARFLC05=RR giving up 1/8 to 77-3/8 and Brazilian Cs BR8D14=RR giving up 1/8 to 64-3/4.
A strong 7.2 percent growth of Mexican gross domestic product in the second quarter year-over-year reinforced the positive sentiment about the country's recovery, but gave little boost to debt prices.
"People were counting on seven-percent growth, " said a Brady bond trader. "Much of that has been priced in."
Expectations for above-estimate growth had risen sharply last week to spark rallies in the Mexican markets, he said.
Mexican Pars MX625L19=RR slipped 1/8 to 67-3/8, while discounts MXFLL19=RR edged down 1/8 to 80-1/8.
While the spreads of Mexican Bradies and Eurobonds over U.S. Treasuries are still in tightening trends, the pace is likely to slow down, the trader said.
The 30-year UMS global bond, for example, has narrowed tp around 500 basis points from 570 at its issuance in late May, and it is likely to trade in the 485-515 range in the near term, he said.
While Latin American Bradies faltered, dollar Vnesh RUVNUSLNS=RR ended unchanged at 61-1/2,  and still held allure on a participation basis, said the U.S. bank trader.
The Lipper General Municipal Fund Index for Monday, August 19, was 128.43, down 0.10 point or 0.08 percent from Friday, August 16.
The fund index is a principal index only of the 10 largest general municipal bond funds that declare daily dividends. It is calculated on a daily basis and is net asset value weighted based on the number of shares that could have been purchased for $100 as of December 31, 1980.
The components of the index as of June 30, 1995, are as follows: Colonial Tax-Exempt Class A; Dreyfus Municipal Bond Fund; Dean Witter Tax-Exempt Fund; A; MFS Muni Fund Class A; T Rowe Price Tax Free Income Fund; Putnam Tax-Exempt Income Fund A; Keystone Tax Free Fund; Tax-Exempt Bond Fund America; USAA Tax-Exempt Long Term Fund.
Russia's gross foreign exchange reserves rose to $19.25 billion in the first quarter of this year from $17.21 billion at the end of 1995, the central bank said on Tuesday in its latest bulletin.
NOTE - Central bank reserve assets include finance ministry assets. Gold is valued at $300 an ounce.
Millipore Corp and Fisher Scientific International Inc said Tuesday they have signed an agreement to distribute Millipore products in the United States, Puerto Rico and Canada.
Under the agreement, Fisher Scientific will distribute Millipore products used in research laboratories. The products include vacuum-driven filter units, centrifugal devices and disc filters.
Millipore said the agreement with Fisher marks the first time it has teamed up with a major distribution company.
The terms of the agreement were not disclosed.
The Pakistani rupee closed 0.10 up at 39.00 to the dollar in the kerb market on Sunday due to its shortage and is likely to open further up on Wednesday, dealers said.
The State (central) Bank of Pakistan rate, last changed on August 13, was 35.5300/35.7077 to the dollar.
The premium on foreign exchange bearer certificates closed at 9.60 percent compared to the opening at 9.70 percent.
South Korea's militant students find themselves isolated from a hostile public as they press a violent campaign for reunification with North Korea.
Heroes of the battle for democracy in the late 1980s, when the middle classes rallied behind them, the radical students have now alienated ordinary South Koreans by embracing Pyongyang's blueprint for a single Korea.
Authorities say their leaders are Communist stooges blocking their efforts to bring peace to the divided Korean peninsula.
Tuesday's assault by riot police on Yonsei University to flush out several thousand undergraduates who had occupied two buildings was the worst campus violence since President Kim Young-sam took power in 1993.
Critics partly blame Kim for the unrest, saying it is the outcome of confusion caused by what they see as his lack of a coherent policy on the North.
Yet there is little sympathy for the methods adopted by the young protesters, even though anti-government protests that pit rock-throwing students against riot police have long been a fixture of campus life.
"Things have changed. What the students are doing now was accepted in the 1960s, 70s and 80s. It is not fit for the 90s," said Kim Sung-joo, a professor of political science at Sungkyunkwan University.
Korean students have traditionally acted as the conscience of the nation, speaking out in times of national crisis.
College campuses were the breeding grounds for fearless student pro-democracy fighters willing to sacrifice their lives for the cause. They helped end military-backed rule and usher in democracy.
But as democracy began to take root and communism crumbled worldwide, many students abandoned their socialist leanings.
"Students calling for reunification is fine, but their method is too violent and extreme," said Kim Ho-jin, a professor at Korea University. "The government also is to blame as they cracked down too harshly," he added.
Another academic, with links to the main opposition National Congress for New Politics, placed the blame for Tuesday's mayhem at the feet of the government.
"South-North Korea relations are not just going through a cool or rigid period, they have totally broken down. And who is responsible for this? No one but the government."
"If the government had done a better job with South-North Korea relations, students would have no reason to be out there. As the government is confused about its North Korea policy, how can we blame the students?" he said.
South and North Korea have remained technically at war since their 1950-53 conflict, but relations worsened after the death of the North's Great Leader Kim Il-sung two years ago.
Since then, there have been no official government contacts between the two Koreas.
South Korea and the United States have proposed four-party peace talks together with the North and China, but Pyongyang has yet to respond.
The students support Pyongyang's vision for a reunified Korea that would leave the governments of both Koreas intact.
Elderly South Koreans still remember the Korean War, and analysts say that is part of the reason why students have not been able to get support from the public.
"In the past, students fought for democracy calling for the end of the militant government, which the public supported. But reunification is another matter as many have been through the war," said Kim at Korea University.
"The students are simply calling for reunification because we are one. Everyone knows that, and have for a long time, but how it should be done is different."
South Korean authorities had called the protests at Yonsei a "pro-North Korean riot", but analysts said they were playing up the North Korean threat to garner public support for the crackdown on campus dissent.
"Only a handful of them are really pro-North Korea. The government knows this, but is playing along that line to receive public support," said the opposition academic.
Ecu (1) 19 August 1996 (96/C 241/01) END OF DOCUMENT.
Strong demand took most Bucharest share prices higher at the week's first trading session on Tuesday, brokers said.
However, overall turnover fell to 98.4 million lei from 124.8 million previously.
"We forecast a turnover figure close to the previous level, expecting Azomures to trade heavily on the back of its fine half-year economic results but for some reason bigger investors stayed away," said a trader.
Azomures SA state fertiliser maker took 70 percent of total turnover, but the number of shares which changed hands dropped to 5,508 from 7,679. It closed 900 lei weaker at 12,300.
"Considering the number of shares traded, Artrom did better than Azomures today, but turnover from Artrom trading remains low, due to the low price of its shares," another trader said.
State engineering company Artrom SA had 5,757 shares traded on Tuesday, when it closed slightly higher at 2,650 lei.
The unofficial VAB Index -- a value-weighted index of all stocks computed by  Vanguard SA securities -- was 1.28 percent higher than the previous session, closing at 362.8 points. Its base was 1,000 points when it was created last November.
U.S. seasonally adjusted retail sales rose 1.2 percent in the first two weeks of fiscal August versus July, according to the Lynch, Jones & Ryan Inc Redbook Retail Sales Index.
Apparel sales, particularly of menswear, has driven retail performance so far in August, said Howard Eilenberg, retail analyst at Lynch, Jones & Ryan.
"In particular, it's the athletic apparel that (is) doing very well," Eilenberg said in an interview with Reuters financial television.
Menswear sales have picked up at department stores, chains and discounters, according to Eilenberg.
"This sales pattern is well-diffused and it is taking place all over the country," Eilenberg said.
He said the immediate future looks promising for retail sales. "With the economy holding up reasonably well, I think we're in for a good fall season," he said.
Aid agencies on Tuesday prepared to receive thousands of Rwandan Hutu refugees fleeing Burundi because they fear for their lives after pressure from the Tutsi-dominated army.
"We are expecting some 4,500 refugees today (Tuesday)," Stephano Severe, head of the U.N. High Commissioner for Refugees (UNHCR) in Butare, told Reuters in this Rwandan border town.
Severe said he expected Magara, the biggest of Rwandan refugee camps in Burundi with an initial population of more than 45,000 people, to be emptied within two to three days.
"We have got 65 trucks at the ready today (Tuesday) and if the returns continue like this, it will only be a matter of two to three days before we finish the repatriations from Magara," he added.
Refugees at Magara Camp in northern Ngozi province said they feared for their lives if they stayed in Burundi and expected more intimidation from the army.
"We are leaving because they have burned our camp. We are returning to Rwanda because we are forced to go back and there is no security here," Joseph Murindahamwe told Reuters.
His story was backed up by other refugees who said soldiers came every night since Wednesday with local Burundians burning huts, shooting into the air and telling the refugees they had to leave.
In the Burundi capital Bujumbura, an army spokesman said the army would carry out investigations into the expulsions but he said the refugees had in most cases provoked troops.
"I will myself investigate to find out what is going on," Lieutenant-Colonel Isaie Nibizi told Reuters. "But in certain camps, it is the refugees who provoke the army and Magara is a camp like that."
Between 6,000 and 7,000 refugees returned to Rwanda on Monday leaving around 24,000 at Magara and 13,000 at Rukuramigabo Camp in neighbouring Kirundo province, Paul Stromberg, regional spokesman for the U.N. High Commissioner for Refugees (UNHCR), told Reuters in a telephone interview.
The repatriation effort was hampered on Monday because the road used by 25 UNHCR trucks to ferry refugees became impassable south of Butare in Rwanda, he said.
Hundreds of refugees were forced to walk part of the way towards Butare and would have to spend the night at Butare stadium.
Burundian soldiers triggered the stepped-up repatriation, killing three Magara refugees including a mother and child at the weekend, aid officials said.
The latest expulsions came nearly four weeks after Burundi's new military strongman Pierre Buyoya promised to halt forced repatriation in an apparent effort to defuse international condemnation of his coup d'etat.
Army intimidation at the camp could be the direct result of government policy, but it could also indicate Buyoya's difficulty controlling local military commanders, analysts said.
"We are caught between a military who are going to become more vociferous and violent and certain elements in the camp who do not want to co-operate and do not want to go home," Stromberg said.
Around two million Rwandan Hutus fled their homeland to Zaire, Tanzania and Burundi in 1994 after Tutsi rebels defeated the Hutu army and ousted the government, blamed for the genocide of up to one million Tutsis and moderate Hutus.
Burundian authorities accuse the refugees of supporting Hutu rebels waging a guerrilla war against the Burundian army in which 150,000 people have died since 1993.
Guangdong Investment Ltd placed 80 million existing shares at HK$5.22 each on Tuesday afternoon, joint lead manager UBS Securities Ltd said.
Note. Full company name is Sklarny Kavalier a.s.. The company is a glass maker.
Bob Dole's presidential campaign received a substantial boost from last weeks's Republican convention. But was it enough?
President Bill Clinton still holds a lead of four to 12 percentage points over the Republican presidential nominee with 12 weeks to go until Election Day on Nov. 5, according to opinion polls released on Monday and Tuesday.
The polls were taken at a point when Dole was enjoying maximum benefit from a week in which he and his party were able to project their message to a national audience virtually uncontested by Democrats.
That period has already ended, and Clinton, a tireless campaigner and persuasive speaker, is moving to recapture the intitiative ahead of next week's Democratic convention.
Most worrying for Dole, evidence is growing that whatever bounce he received from the convention is already dissipating.
An ABC tracking poll that had Clinton only four points ahead of Dole on Monday showed his lead lengthening to 12 points by Tuesday in a three-way race that also included Texan billionaire Ross Perot.
Monday's poll had Clinton leading Dole by 44 percent to 40 percent. One day later, Clinton jumped to 49 percent and Dole slumped to 37 percent. Perot fell to 10 percent from 11 percent.
The figures were consistent with a New York Times/CBS poll released on Monday, which also showed Clinton leading by 12 points, 49 percent to 37 percent. Perot trailed with seven percent.
The phenomenon of the "convention bounce" is well documented in U.S. politics, and bounces seem to be growing larger as the electorate grows more volatile and less attached to the two major parties.
"It just about always happens. It's real. What's important is how big it is and how long it lasts," Gary Langer, senior polling analyst for ABC television, said.
"Dole remains well behind, given the fact that we haven't had the Democratic convention and Clinton's bump in the polls which will inevitably occur," said Mark Rozell, a political scientist at the American University in Washington.
With Clinton due to sign three popular pieces of legislation this week on health insurance, the minimum wage and welfare reform, the bloom may be off the Dole revival before the Democratic convention opens in Chicago next Monday.
University of Cinncinati pollster Al Tuchfarber said the polls to watch would be those conducted in early September.
-- Polls of registered voters, as opposed to likely voters, tend to underestimate Republican support. Most polls being conducted now are of registered voters.
-- Undecided voters tend to break for the challenger rather than the incumbent at the last minute.
-- If support for Perot stays in single digits, his support may crumble in the final days of the campaign, with most of it going to Dole.
"I suspect when the dust settles after the Democratic convention next week, Clinton will emerge with an eight- to 10-point lead," said John Geer, an expert on public opinion trends with Vanderbilt University in Nashville, Tennessee.
Analysts were mostly confident that Pakhoed will post healthy second-half 1996 profits and achieve growth in 1997 after restructuring charges hit first-half 1996 profits published on Tuesday.
"We are considering upgrading our forecasts for the whole year and also for 1997," said Corne Zandbergen, analyst at Generale Bank.
Pakhoed's first-half net earnings were more or less unchanged from 1995 after stripping out a 15 million guilder write-down on tank storage assets and a gain of about seven million from preferential tax treatment, analysts said.
Analysts point to improvements in chemical storage performance and the conclusion of a substantial long-term contract in Singapore as promising for future growth.
"These are certainly positive indicators," said Pieter van Gelder, transport analyst at Delta Lloyd Bank.
Zandbergen said Pakhoed's shedding of its Furness port services unit and its acquisition of chemical distribution firm Univar represented a rational repositioning.
"We are pleased they have decided to shed Furness.. and the acquisition of Univar leaves them much more in line with their core activities," Zandbergen said.
However, some analysts raised doubts over Pakhoed's purchase of Univar for 521 million guilders, questioning the financing of the operation and expecting additional costs.
"Pakhoed want to finalise the acquisition in the second half, but it doesn't include every part of it. Maintenance costs will have a negative effect and the total cost could easily be well be over 521 million," said van Gelder.
Angry Jordanians in the southern city of Karak, kept in check by troops and a curfew after two days of riots against higher bread prices last week, warned on Tuesday of further violence if King Hussein rejects dialogue.
Residents spoke of rising frustration with the king's declared "iron-fist" response to youths who targeted banks and state institutions in what they said was a spontaneous expression of rage over hardship in the poor south.
"The reaction of the government is not to calm things down. People are waiting for the moment to react," Ahmad Mahadeen, elected mayor of the city, told Reuters.
Riots began in Karak and quickly spread to nearby centres. By Saturday night there were clashes in Amman. Peace has been ensured in Karak since Sunday by a curfew and the army.
It was the worst unrest in Jordan since 1989, when riots followed a government decision to raise fuel prices. Then the king dumped his prime minister and began reforms.
Many warned of fresh trouble on Friday -- a week after a protest following prayers turned into clashes with police, who used tear gas to disperse demonstrators.
"The government entered in force and continues to employ force to impose its control...it might be calm now but there is a gradual build-up in tension," one resident said.
The explosion of anger against King Hussein's government comes against a backdrop of widespread poverty in Jordan, few jobs for the rapidly expanding population and a growing gap between rich and poor.
Residents say heavy-handed security methods -- widespread arrests, late-night raids on houses and allegations of torture of detainees -- are feeding resentment of the government.
Residents feel betrayed by King Hussein's response and the government's attitude to what they say are years of accumulated grievances stemming from neglect of the poverty of the south.
"The lack of concern by officials over the plight of the south has led to a feeling there is a gap between us and the government," said Abdullah Sarayrah.
Residents say the feeling is more painful as it comes from those who considered themselves the bedrock of the government's support. Most of King Hussein's tribally based army comes from the south.
"For the first time the people have united against the government of (Prime Minister) Kabariti and signs are emerging of a common attitude against the regime, which people feel has let them down," said Yousef Rawashdeh, another city resident.
Residents draw comparisons between the 1989 troubles and this week's unrest, saying the deep-seated rage that emerged showed the alienation among King Hussein's traditional loyalists.
The few casualties have so far kept a lid on wider tribal unrest, say residents. But said one youth: "A new explosion will be much stronger than the first and only God knows the consequences."
White House spokesman Mike McCurry hinted on Tuesday that President Clinton will sign sweeping welfare reform legislation into law on Thursday.
Asked when the president would sign the bill, McCurry told reporters, "I expect by the end of the week but not Friday and not Wednesday."
Clinton was scheduled to sign two other major pieces of legislation this week: a bill to raise the minimum wage on Tuesday and health insurance reform on Wednesday.
He announced July 31 that he would sign the welfare bill, which would end the 61-year-old federal guarantee of aid to the poor and delegate broad power to states to design their own welfare programmes.
He said he would sign it despite its "serious flaws" because it "gives us a chance we haven't had before to break the cycle of dependency" that plagues millions of Americans. He also promised to seek new legislation to remedy what he sees as its principal defects.
Some of his longtime supporters sharply criticised his decision, arguing that the bill would hurt children and throw hundreds of thousands into poverty. Many analysts viewed his decision to sign it as the latest in a series of moves toward the political centre before the Nov. 5 presidential election.
The following floating-rate issue was announced by lead manager Bayerische Landesbank.
Russia has begun exporting gasoline to Europe in the past couple of months and volumes reached about 80,000 tonnes in August, European oil traders say.
Changing demand patterns in inland Russia towards higher quality gasoline means demand for the "A76" unleaded grade, referring to the 76 MON, has fallen away.
Export volumes are uneven, dealers say, but in August they ran at about 50,000 tonnes from the Baltic ports and 30,000 tonnes from the Black Sea.
The low octane content of the gasoline means it has to be blended in storage terminals in Amsterdam or Malta before being sold on as reformulated gasoline to the United States. Otherwise it is simply sold as low octane fuel for East or West Africa.
A76 cargoes delivered in Amsterdam trade at a discount of $20 to $25 to the European standard 86 MON regular unleaded grade, using an average of barge and cif cargo prices.
Dealers believe the flow from the Black Sea could dry up in September because the Ukraine usually begins four months of gasoline imports around then and some consumers there can use unblended A76.
NOTE - The figures relate to central government finances only.
GBR = government borrowing requirement.
Tokyo rubber futures ended firmer except for the spot August contract on Tuesday as investors hunted for bargains after all contracts hit life-of-contract lows on Monday, traders said.
The spot August contract ended 0.1 yen per kg lower at 129.3 yen. Other contracts ranged from 0.5 yen to 2.0 yen per kg firmer with benchmark January ending up 1.2 at 137.0 yen.
The spot August contract failed to rise due to expectations of large deliveries at the spot expiry next week, they said.
"Sentiment remained bearish as further rises could be capped by selling," one trader said.
U.S. Defense National Stockpile Center plans to start selling surplus natural rubber early next year, with up to 60,000 long tons available for sale, a Stockpile official said Tuesday.
The Stockpile has both ribbed smoked sheets and technically specified blocks for sale, the official said.
It has not decided whether to offer the whole quantity at once, or to break it into lots. There has also been no decision on whether to negotiate sales or call for sealed bids, the official said.
The agency is preparing to call an industry meeting in New York in the next six weeks to get industry input on how it should sell the rubber.
There have been no sales in the current fiscal year, the official said.
The price of the OPEC basket of seven crudes stood at $20.72 a barrel on Monday, against $20.46 on Friday, the OPECNA news agency said, quoting the OPEC secretariat.
The basket comprises Algeria's Saharan Blend, Indonesia's Minas, Nigeria's Bonny Light, Saudi Arabia's Arabian Light, Dubai of the UAE, Venezuela's Tia Juana and Mexico's Isthmus.
The British and French governments told the European Commission on Tuesday that they did not believe the proposed missile joint venture between British Aerospace and Lagardere Groupe should come under EC scrutiny.
BAe and the French defence and communications company Lagardere Group  said on Friday that they had signed a deal to merge their guided missile activities into a joint venture operation.
The deal will create the biggest guided weapons business in Europe, with annual turnover of one billion stg and a 2.6 billion order book.
The move was seen as a step towards consolidating the European defence market to make it more effective against U.S. competitors in a tough world market for exports.
Israeli shares closed lower across the board in dull trading on Tuesday as provident funds resumed selling, traders said.
The benchmark Mishtanim index of the top 100 shares fell 1.08 points, or 0.62 percent, to 172.31 on an all-share turnover of 58 million shekels, unchanged from Monday.
The Maof 25 index fell 0.51 percent to 182.42.
"Activity is very low and the market looks really bad. The provident funds of Israel Discount Bank were selling shares today, but there were no buyers," said Yoram Ben-Yaeir at Ahrayut Investment Management.
"We are in the middle of a crisis and nobody knows when will it end. The tension with Syria is also bad for trading," he added.
Israeli television reported on Monday that Syria had tested a long-range Scud missile able to hit Israeli cities. Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu has also warned that problems in Lebanon would be bad for Damascus.
The First International Bank of Israel gained 0.50 percent to 34,652 after it reported that net profit in the second quarter of 1996 rose to 39.5 million shekels from 39.3 million shekels in the same quarter in 1995. During the first half of 1996 net profit fell to 75.3 million shekels from 82.3 million.
Clal Trading lost 0.5 percent to 660 after it said net profit in the second quarter of 1996 fell to 310,000 shekels from 9.4 million shekels in the same quarter of 1995. During the first half of 1996 net profit fell to 8.5 million shekels from 13 million shekels.
Clal Trading's parent company Clal Israel fell 2.50 percent to 6,553.
"The bond market continues to decline and this affects trading in the stock market. The situation of the provident funds is very worrying and soon they will be forced to sell more shares to get liquidity," said Dannielle Finn at Batucha Securities and Investment.
Provident funds are long-term savings funds with special tax benefits. They have been forced to sell bonds and stocks to meet massive public withdrawals.
The most active shares were Koor Industries, which gained 1.0 percent to 27,603 on volume of 5.0 million shekels; Teva Pharmaceutical Industries, which rose 1.75 percent to 106,807 on turnover of 4.0 million shekels; and Bank Hapoalim, which rose 0.50 percent to 420 on volume of 2.8 million shekels.
The Philippine Central Bank said on Tuesday it had cut its one-month reverse repo rate to 11.5 percent from 11.625.
Included in the second quarter's net loss was a nonrecurring accrual of $1.7 million for future reclamation and mining at the Golden Reward mine and $1.1 million in depreciation and depletion.
The Credit Rating Information Services of India Ltd (CRISIL) announced its ratings for the following six fixed deposits and two non-convertible debentures.
Note: AAA/FAAA indicates highest safety, AA/FAA high safety, A/FA adequate safety, BBB moderate safety, BB/FB inadequate safety and D default for the partly convertible debentures (PCD), non convertible debenture (NCD), optionally convertible debentures (OCD),fixed deposits (FD), floating yield bonds (FYB) and floating rate bonds (FRB) issues, auction rated note (ARN), Certificate of Deposit (CD), Secured Convertible Premium Notes (SCPN), Convertible Premium Notes (CPN), Floating Rate Note (FRN), Structured Obligation (so), Pass Through Certificates (PTC), Short Term Debt (STD).
P1 indicates very strong, P2 strong and P3 adequate for commercial paper (CP) issues. SO means structured obligation.
Crisil may apply '+'(plus) or '-' signs for ratings from AA to C and FAA to FC to reflect comparative standing within the category, and '+' (plus) sign for ratings from P1 to P3 to reflect a comparatively higher standing within the category. CRISIL uses prefix of "pf" to its long term rating symbols for preference shares.
'F' is used as a prefix for Fixed Deposit ratings.
Source: Delhi grain market traders To contribute to this daily table of indicative market rates, please fax Delhi on 011-332 0841, attention:  Subhash Chopra & Satish Sharma.
NOTE - Shibuya Kogyo Co Ltd operates domestic bottling plants.
Pulte Corp, a large homebuilder, said Tuesday its directors authorized the repurchase of up to an additional one million shares of the company's common stock.
Pulte has about 26 million shares outstanding.
The company has to date repurchased four million shares under an original repurchase program. Of this amount, about 3.3 million shares have been bought back since December 31, 1995.
Hotel and property group Pioneer Industries International (Holdings) Ltd said on Tuesday it plans a rights issue to raise funds for property investment projects in the United States, Thailand and China.
"The funding proposal is at a preliminary stage and the terms of such proposal... have yet to be determined," it said in a statement.
It did not say how much it intends to raise.
Pioneer posted a 28 percent rise in yearly profit to HK$84.85 million last week.
--Chris Aspin, Mexico City newsroom (525) 7289530.
Japan is likely to raise taxes on domestic liquor next year in a bid to appease foreign criticism that its tax system discriminates against imported spirits, analysts and experts say.
A World Trade Organisation panel has already ruled that Japan treats imported spirits such as whiskey and brandy unfairly compared with a Japanese spirit known as shochu.
"It's highly possible that taxes will be raised from next April. Within the framework of free trade, many industrialised countries would obviously see it as unfair that 'shochu' taxes are lower compared to other distilled products," said Tokushi Yamazaki, an analyst at Daiwa Institute of Research Ltd.
However, analysts and experts said the ruling is likely to stand and that Tokyo will face a 15-month deadline to make changes in its tax system.
The EU says that per degree of alcohol, Japan taxes imported spirits at rates as much as six times as those imposed on shochu.
For example, a 700 millilitre bottle of imported whiskey can cost 5,000 yen ($46) or more in Japan, while a bottle of shochu of about the same size costs around 850 yen ($7).
Raising taxes on shochu appears to be the most likely course of action. "If we take into account our tight fiscal condition, cutting taxes is not a likely option," a Finance Ministry official told Reuters. "Nothing has been decided yet, but liquor taxes are likely to be discussed during the annual review of the country's tax system by the end of December."
"We've been telling the government again and again that shochu and whiskey are not substitutable. We're backing the government all the way in its WTO appeal," said Teikichi Uchida of the Japan Sake Brewers Association.
Industry sources said if shochu taxes were brought into line with whiskey taxes, the retail prices of shochu would have to go up by around 800 yen ($7), hurting domestic producers.
The WTO panel report classified spirits, including whiskey, brandy, rum and gin, as being "directly competitive or substitutable" with Japanese shochu. Vodka was classified as a "like" or "highly similar" product to shochu.
A new study by Dataquest, a unit of Gartner Group Inc, shows that the worldwide market for consumer electronics semiconductors reached $24.6 billion in 1995.
Prior-year figures were not immediately available.
Dataquest said Toshiba Corp led the market, with nearly $3.3 billion in sale, and a 13.4 percent market share.
Toshiba was followed by NEC Corp, with $2.7 billion in sales and an 11.0 percent market share, and by Matsushita Electric Industrial Co Ltd with $1.9 billion in sales and a 7.7 percent market shares.
CSCE world sugar futures settled slightly higher on fund buying after a dull and lightly-traded session, floor sources said.
The market set its 17-point range in morning trade and then drifted quietly for the remainder of the day. After opening a bit firmer, the October contract fell to its low of 11.70 on the reopen. Fund buying then carried the contract to its high of 11.87, and a dearth of selling interest helped prices hold within that range until the close.
October settled 0.09 cent a lb firmer at 11.81, having ranged from 11.87 to 11.70. Second-position March finished up 0.05 at 11.47, while the deferred contracts closed 0.06 to 0.02 higher.
Strong resistance was maintained between 11.92 and 11.94, over which fund buying is likely to emerge and carry the contract over the 12.00-cent hurdle.
Support was pegged at 11.53, basis October. Traders cited stops over 11.90 in October.
LCE white sugar futures closed higher, with October gaining $1.50 on the day to end at $353.30. December settled up 70 cents to $346.50.
NOTE - IMI Co Ltd split its share with a 500-yen face value into 10 shares with a 50-yen face value on May 1.
NOTE: 1996 Q2 includes a charge of $0.03 a share from legal costs related to an unsuccessful acquisition effort.
Austrian oil group OMV AG reiterated on Tuesday that it was unaffected by a controversial U.S. law imposing sanctions on firms that do business with Libya and said it doubted that the legislation would survive.
"The law does not affect us. It does not affect our long-standing contracts and our new investments do not exceed the $40 million (a year) limit," chief executive Richard Schenz told a news conference.
Earlier this month U.S. President Bill Clinton signed the Iran-Libyan Sanctions Act, which lets the United States penalise non-U.S. firms that invest $40 million or more a year in the oil and natural gas sectors of Iran or Libya.
"We will consider (the law) in future but it is questionnable whether the Americans will be able to sustain it long term, given EU opposition to their "world sheriff" approach," Schenz said.
A U.S.-led consortium will resume talks this week with Pyongyang on the site, labour and other issues related to the construction of two light water reactors in North Korea, the consortium said on Tuesday.
The talks, to be held at the New York headquarters of the Korean Peninsula Energy Development Organisation (KEDO), pick up from discussions held last month in North Korea, KEDO said. They were scheduled to resume on Thursday.
Discussion would focus on protocols for the project site, North Korean labour, goods, facilities and services in connection with the reactor project, KEDO said. KEDO represents the U.S., Japanese and South Korean governments.
The protocols followed a $4.5 billion supply agreement signed in December 1995 to provide Pyongyang with two Western-made light water reactors promised in a 1994 accord under which North Korea froze its own nuclear programme.
The nuclear pact was signed after three years of difficult talks on replacing communist North Korea's nuclear programme with one that produced less weapons-grade plutonium. Light water reactors are less suited to making plutonium for weapons, which Washington and its allies suspected North Korea was doing with its Soviet-model plants.
Last month KEDO and North Korea signed three protocol agreements covering transportation, communication and privileges and immunities related to the construction of the light water reactors.
Grain and oilseed exports reported by USDA and private export sources.
SOYBEAN TENDER - Pakistan is seeking 30,000 to 34,000 tonnes U.S. no. 2 or better yellow soybeans under PL 480, Title I. Delivery is slated for October 15-30. Bids must be submitted by August 28 and remain valid until August 29.
BARLEY TENDER - Syria's General Establishment for Cereal Processing and Trade said it was offering 50,000 tonnes of black feed barley for sale. It said August 20 had been set as a final date to receive price offers. Confirmation would be made on August 21. The quantity from the 1994 crop would be ready for shipment between September 15 and October 15.
WHEAT TENDER -  World Food Programme officials said on Tuesday the Bangladesh government planned commercial imports of 100,000 tonnes of soft wheat for November shipment.
WHEAT TENDER - The CCC is seeking up to 33,000 tonnes of U.S. No.2 soft white wheat for donation to Bangladesh for Sept 10-Oct 5 delivery. Offers are due on August 27.
- Sri Lanka will tender on August 30 for 100,000 tonnes of U.S., Canadian or Argentinian wheat. It includes 50,000 tonnes of soft wheat for September shipment and 50,000 tonnes of hard wheat for October shipment.
WHEAT TENDER - The CCC seeks up to 16,000 tonnes of U.S. No. 2 hard red winter or soft red winter or soft white wheat for donation to Tajikistan for Sept 15-Oct 10 shipment.
- Jordan will tender August 28 for 90,000 tonnes of U.S. HRW or spring wheat and 10,000 tonnes of soft white or SRW wheat for first and second half October shipment, No. 2 or better wheat with option for equivalent origins in two 50,000-tonne lots.
CORN TENDER - The South African Maize Board said it was inviting offers for the export of 33,000 tonnes of yellow maize for shipment in September and October out of Durban. The export tender closes on August 22. The board said the offer consisted of two units of 16,500 tonnes of maize. The shipping period for the cargoes was September 29-October 9.
MARKET TALK - Egypt has delayed any purchases of U.S. soft red wheat for now after buying U.S. soft white wheat at the weekend, and is exploring European and Argentinian markets, its main commodities buyer said. Egypt bought 150,000 tonnes of U.S. soft white wheat at $187.70 and $187.75 on Saturday and Sunday after originally seeking 50,000 tonnes of soft red or soft white wheat. U.S. exporters said Egypt was avoiding American soft red wheat because its vomitoxin content exceeded two parts per million specified by the GASC and had paid a premium of up to $2.00 a tonne for fungus-free white wheat.
- Malaysia will probably buy small parcels of corn totalling over 100,000 tonnes over the next month while the rest of the grain and meal trade in the region remained quiet, traders said on Tuesday.
- China has missed a golden opportunity to export corn and earn millions of dollars, and now has up to a million tonnes of the grain rotting in silos in the country's north, Far East traders said on Tuesday.
- China is unlikely to need to buy rice on the international market to make up for flood damage to domestic crops, traders said. No China inquiries for rice were reported by traders in China, Hong Kong, Singapore and Thailand.
Austrian oil and chemicals group OMV said on Tuesday a test well off the coast of Albania had yielded no oil but the firm said it had located new prospective fields.
OMV began drilling the 5,000 metre Rodoni one test well in January, four kilometres offshore.
"The drill did not find any oil carrying layers but there are other prospective areas in our exploration area," chief executive Richard Schenz told a news conference.
"In 1997 we are planning a new seismic study and in 1998 we will start fresh drilling."
Schenz confirmed OMV's interest in onshore oil exploration in Albania. He said the company would find out in the autumn whether it had been successful in its bid for a licence.
OMV was also aware of potential in North Africa, Schenz said. The firm is already active in Libya.
"In geographic terms North Africa is interesting for us because of the Trieste supply route," he said.
Schenz announced the group would invest around 1.5 billion schillings in exploration and production this year.
A break-in at the U.S. Justice Department's World Wide Web site last week highlighted the Internet's continued vulnerability to hackers.
Unidentified hackers gained access to the department's web page on August 16 and replaced it with a hate-filled diatribe labelled the "Department of Injustice" that included a swastika and a picture of Adolf Hitler.
Justice officials quickly pulled the plug on the vandalised page, but the security flaws that allowed hackers to gain entry likely exist in thousands of other corporate and government web sites, security experts said.
"The vast majority of sites are vulnerable," said Richard Power, senior analyst at the Computer Security Institute. "The Justice Department shouldn't be singled out."
Justice Department officials said the compromised web site was not connected to any computers containing sensitive files. The web site (http://www.usdoj.gov) included copies of press releases, speeches and other publicly available information.
The security breach "is just like graffiti on the outside of the building," spokesman Bert Brandenburg said.
Other organisations have been targeted in the past. Last year, the Nation of Islam's Million Man March web site was vandalised. And hackers make 250,000 attempts annually to break into U.S. military computers, according to a General Accounting Office report.
Windows Magazine recently found security flaws at web sites of a dozen major corporations. "The web is spectacularly insecure," editor Mike Elgan said. Relying on security holes that had been documented by software manufacturers months earlier, the magazine's specialists were able to gain various degrees of unauthorised access at the different sites.
Elgan said hackers who are exploiting some of the same flaws are motivated by anger over the growth and commercialization of the Internet. "A common theme is that hackers are fed up with non-hackers on the Internet," he said.
The battle is not completely hopeless. "You can secure a web site," Richard Power said. "There's all kinds of measures you can take. Most corporations and institutions don't take them simply because nothing bad has happened to them yet."
Some sites are using multiple layers of security, well beyond simple password protection, to keep hackers out.
One site mentioned by Windows Magazine was Fidelity Investments. Fidelity's site advertises its mutual funds and disseminates information about personal finance but does not contain confidential customer information.
Fidelity officials immediately closed the loophole identified by the magazine, a spokeswoman said. But multiple security measures previously in place would have prevented a security breach despite the hole, the spokeswoman added.
TAYLOR DEVICES INC.
			   Fiscal Year Ended May 31st.
Deputy Prime Minister Alexander Zaveryukha said on Tuesday Russia would levy import quotas on Ukrainian white sugar only after negotiations.
"Work on sugar quotas is in progress," Zaveryukha told reporters at a news conference, but he said that the measures would be negotiated.
"It is not one-sided, Russia levelling quotas, it will be done in agreement with Ukraine."
He did not say when a decision could be expected.
Last week a Russian government commission recommended white sugar imports for 1996 and 1997 be capped at 1.5 million tonnes, per year, one million tonnes of which would be for Ukrainian.
Zaveryukha and other officials say Ukrainian sugar is priced too low for Russian producers to compete.
Zaveryukha also said there were quality worries on imports from Ukraine and other Commonwealth of Independent States members.
Russia's Federal Property Fund is seeking investment of more than $77 million in two investment tenders for a combined 34 percent of oil company  OAO Sibneft.
The fund plans to tender a first lot of 19 percent of the company next month, with the winner announced on September 20.
The starting price for the 858.12 million shares is 82.38 billion roubles but the winner must also agree to invest the rouble equivalent of at least $43.484 million, according to the latest issue of the fund's Reforma bulletin.
A second lot of 15 percent of Sibneft would be tendered separately. Details of the starting price for this lot were not revealed but the minimum investment would be $33.56 million.
Russia announced plans in May to sell 34 percent of five oil copmpanies, including Sibneft, this year.
Foreign ownership in Sibneft is restricted to 15 percent of the capital, Reforma said.
The terms of the first tender say the winner must invest $40.684 million in Sibneft and its associated companies within three years of winning the tender.
But the winner must also pay the equivalent of $2.8 million to cover the company's tax debts.
OAO Sibirskaya Neftyanaya Kompaniya (Sibneft) is one of a dozen vertically integrated Russian oil groups. Its main operating unit is AO Noyabrskneftegaz.
Sibneft's oil output was 20.35 million tonnes in 1995, after 22.68 million in 1994.
The previously unknown ZAO Neftyanaya Kompaniya and Stolichny Bank Sberezhenii won control of a 51 percent stake in Sibneft at the end of last year under the government's shares-for-loans scheme.
Their bid of $100.3 million was guaranteed by Bank Menatep.
A consortium of banks, including Inkombank, submitted a higher bid which was rejected because it was wrongly formulated, privatisation officials said.
Inkombank took the case to court but said last month it had lost on appeal.
-- J.C. Bradford analyst Elliot Laurence said he cut his rating on Urban Outfitters Inc because the stock's performance had not quite lived up to Wall Street's expectations.
-- "Although the results are positive and the stock has performed extremely well over the last six months, we did not see the magnitude of outperformance which had been anticipated," Laurence said. "Based on these levels, there is more risk than reward."
-- Shares were down 3-3/8 at 21-1/8 on Tuesday afternoon.
A day after Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu warned escalation of violence in Lebanon would not be good for Syria, a senior government source said on Tuesday Israel was not trying to "heat up the border" with Syria.
The statement followed an Israeli Channel Two television report on Monday that Syria had tested a long-range Scud missile able to hit Israeli cities.
"There is no intention to heat up the border with Syria," a government source who spoke on condition he not be named told Reuters.
During his first visit to Israeli-occupied south Lebanon since his May election victory, Netanyahu warned the Hizbollah guerrilla group that its raids on Israeli forces would only worsen the conflict.
"It is not good for Syria, Lebanon or Hizbollah or Israel. Therefore our choice is to try to reach a calming of the situation and guaranteeing security for all," Netanyahu said.
Israel says Syria, the main power broker in Lebanon with 35,000 troops there, could curb Hizbollah guerrillas fighting to oust Israel from a 15 km (nine mile) south Lebanon buffer strip the Jewish state has held since 1982.
Lebanon and Syria have both rejected Netanyahu's "Lebanon First" proposal -- by which Israel would withdraw from south Lebanon for the right security guarantees -- as a ploy to avoid handing the Golan Heights back to Damascus.
Israel captured the strategic Golan Heights in the 1967 Middle East war. Netanyahu says he will keep the plateau. Israel's previous government said it was ready to make painfull concessions on the Golan for full peace with Syria.
 Employees		   10,786		 vs 12,833.
NOTE - ABB Switzerland is a unit of electrical engineering group ABB Asea Brown Boveri AG. ABB said the reduction in employees is due to last year's sale of ABB Transportation Systems AG and the apprentice training programme becoming independent.
The U.S. trade surplus in agricultural commodities was $1.741 billion in June, down from a revised $1.879 billion in May, the Commerce Department said Tuesday.
In its monthly trade report, Commerce pegged farm exports at $4.276 billion in June, down from $4.723 billion in May. Imports were $2.535 billion, compared with $2.844 billion the previous month.
The cumulative surplus in farm trade was $13.667 billion in the first six months of the year, compared with $11.400 billion in the same period last year.
In June, the value of U.S. corn exports fell to $640 million from $885 million in May, and wheat exports fell to $448 million from $475 million. Soybean exports rose to $430 million from $352 million, the department said.
Imports of vegetable oils and fats fell in June to $110 million from $157 million in May.
Terror has gripped Grozny in the face of a threatened Russian bombardment to drive out rebels who humiliated Moscow by seizing the Chechen capital.
Russian security supremo Alexander Lebed, instructed to restore order in the city overrun by rebels after a raid on August 6, planned to visit the region on Wednesday in an apparent a last-ditch attempt to avert further bloodshed.
With President Boris Yeltsin holidaying hundreds of km (miles) northwest of Moscow in the Valdai lakeland, Lebed's policy-making Security Council fuelled speculation on who was running Russia by expressing doubt that the president was directly involved in finalising his last order on Chechnya.
But Yeltsin's office, already busy denying a new rash of rumours about Yeltsin's health focused on his heart problems, also insisted that the order was fully in line with the president's wishes.
Tens of thousands of people have fled Grozny to beat the August 22 deadline, when Russian commander Konstantin Pulikovsky says he will use warplanes and heavy artillery to clear rebels from the capital of the mostly-Moslem southern region.
Russian forces have been trying to stop the separatists' independence bid since December 1994 in fighting which has killed more than 30,000 people, mostly civilians.
Liberals have called on Yeltsin to avert the threatened attack, which Yelena Bonner, widow of former Soviet dissident Andrei Sakharov, said would be a "crime against humanity".
"It seems Boris Yeltsin is unable to and does not want to stop the monstrous crime which is being prepared," Bonner told Ekho Moskvy news agency on Tuesday.
About half Grozny's population of 400,000 is estimated to have either fled or died since Yeltsin sent his forces in.
Much of the city was destroyed at the start of 1995 as federal forces bombed the rebels out of Grozny, killing thousands of civilians in the process.
Though many have fled in recent days, tens of thousands remain, and their chances of escape decreased on Tuesday when Russian soldiers blocked one of the few points of passage.
The troops apparently aimed to close the route to Chechen fighters. But they stranded civilians in an area between rebel and Russian lines which has been shelled heavily in recent days.
About 30 soldiers with armoured personnel carriers (APCs) swept through the dusty village of Alkhan-Yurt on the southwest fringe of Grozny and took up positions near a ramshackle bridge.
"They started shooting up the bridge with grenades when they got down there and everyone turned back," said one woman who managed to cross from the Grozny side just before the Russians moved in. Sporadic explosions could be heard from the vicinity.
Western journalists who visited the bridge in the early evening saw the bodies of two civilians on the Grozny side.
The troops' arrival halted the flow of refugees, many of them old folk who had hobbled for several kilometres.
The soldiers searched refugees and forced men to lie on the ground. A number said they were robbed of some of the few possesions they managed to take along as they fled their homes.
One of the APCs trained its cannon on us.
"Out of the car!" screamed one of the blue-camouflaged soldiers, sticking his Kalashnikov assault rifle in my face.
"You damn journalists! Don't you have enough blacks in your own country? You've come here to defend these black arses we're trying to wipe out. I could kill you now if I wanted to," he told me, prodding my stomach with the barrel of the gun.
Russian troops use such racist terms for the dark-skinned peoples of the Caucasus, including Chechens.
Unlike the first days of the exodus from Grozny, when most were young or middle-aged who found cars, buses, even donkey carts to cram into, a great number are now frail elderly people on foot who had waited until the last moment to get out.
Many in the chaotic crowd were driving cattle or bent over in exhaustion by the roadside under a blazing sun. Black smoke from fires burning in Grozny rose in the sky over their heads.
"I didn't want to leave home but everyone says they are going to bomb everything in the city," said a toothless old man with one leg whom we gave a lift to.
A plump old woman, tears streaming down her cheeks, confronted the soldiers. "Why do you want to kill us?" she said.
The sea of agonised faces was broken by a single crazed smile -- a mentally handicapped man being pushed through the dust in a wheelchair.
Australian Prime Minister John Howard said on Wednesday that the 3.5 percent GDP growth forecast for the 1996/97 year was not high enough.
"3.5 percent is not high enough," Howard told Australian Broadcasting Corp radio.
Istanbul gold prices ended higher on Tuesday on the back of some firming on world markets but volume dropped slightly, dealers said.
Gold gained 3,050 lira per gram and $0.75 to end at 1,075,250 lira per gram and $388.20 per ounce.
The lira closed weaker at 86,070 per dollar versus Monday's 86,000 on higher central bank dollar rate for banks' forex transfers.
Traded volume dropped by 26 percent to 1,096 kilos but trade was active as demand from the free market was intact, dealers said.
They said demand from the free market had increased amid increasing jewellery sales in the summer.
There was 796 kilos of trade in the morning and 300 kilos of trade in the afternoon. Of the total trade, 93 percent was in dollar terms due to slightly higher gold prices abroad.
The Thai overnight interbank rate continued to ease to 9.50 percent in late trade on Tuesday from 10.50 percent early and 11.00 percent late on Monday on higher money supply, dealers said.
Dealers said market liquidity continued to improve today as most banks seemed to have sufficient funds for the coming reserve requirement and most mid-month value added tax payments had already been made.
Commercial banks have to meet Bank of Thailand reserve requirements on the seventh and 22nd of every month.
The baht was lower at 25.278-25.283 to the dollar in late quiet trade compared with 25.275-25.280 earlier as most players awaited the outcome of the U.S. Federal Reserve meeting to be held today, dealers said.
"The dollar/baht trade was quiet ahead of the Fed meeting," said one currency dealer.
"The swap premium fell as the confidence of the baht continued to strengthen after the central bank's remark on the weekend," the dealer said.
Bank of Thailand governor Rerngchai Marakanond on the weekend warned against speculating on the baht and vowed to intervene to defend the currency if necessary.
The mid-rate was fixed at 25.29 to the dollar, unchanged from Monday.
KIWI International Air Lines said on Tuesday that the Federal Aviation Administration granted approval of the return of the final two aircraft to KIWI's fleet, allowing the airline to operate all of its 15 aircraft.
KIWI voluntarily cut about 25 percent of its flights in late June after an FAA examination revealed problems involving pilot training records at the airline.
NOTE - Kozosushi So-Honbu Co Ltd is a nationwide franchiser of take-out sushi.
Economic data for Japan improved slightly in June, but economists said the nation's recovery does not look like it will be moving out of the slow lane anytime soon.
Japan's index of leading indicators, which was designed to help predict economic developments over the next six months stood at 70 in June, over the key 50 mark for the third month in a row, the Economic Planning Agency (EPA) said on Tuesday.
A figure below the so-called "boom or bust" mark of 50 is generally taken as suggesting the economy will contract in the coming months, while a figure above 50 suggests the economy will expand.
Moreover, the coincident index, which measures current economic conditions, stood at 55, up from 30 in May and above 50 for the first time since February.
But economists pointed out that the strength in the data, which is compiled by comparing figures from three months before, was largely relative.
"The June figure was based on March data which was quite weak. Today's data confirm that the economic recovery is still moderate," said Satoshi Shimamoto, an economist at MMS International.
An EPA official said improvements in economic barometers related to industrial output were responsible for the lift in the coincident data and that continued improvement in July would also depend on how well output would do.
"If industrial output rises 4.2 percent, then conditions will not be so severe," he said. The government has forecast a month-on-month rise of 4.2 percent in output for July after it dropped a preliminary four percent in June.
Industrial output data for July will be released at the end of August.
Analysts said the government forecast for July was not too far out of line. In general output was recovering gradually and could be expected to do so for the time being, they said.
"It will probably rise by two percent for rest of this year," said Tod Wood, an economist at ING Baring Securities, adding that was in line with a modest economic recovery.
But analysts also noted there were few factors on the horizon that called for a more upbeat assessment of the economy.
A slow but steady comeback in consumption and healthy corporate capital spending plans have been heralded as new stimulants for recovery but an expected drop in public works spending this autumn will somewhat counter those good effects, they said.
Japan's economy started recovering earlier this year after recording four years of near-zero growth, propelled in part by a massive 14 trillion yen public works spending plan announced last September.
Chechen rebel spokesman Movladi Udugov said on Tuesday that Russian troops blew up a bridge over which refugees were trying to flee the capital, killing about 100 civilians.
"Today around 3.30 p.m. (1130 GMT) several hundred refugees were crossing a bridge near the Kirova settlement towards the village of Alkhan-Yurt," Udugov told Reuters by telephone.
"When they were crossing the bridge Russian servicemen blew it up. Around 100 refugees, mainly women and children, died.
"Some of the refugees who managed to cross the bridge were seized by the Russian servicemen and shot dead on the spot. Some 6,000 refugees were forced to flee back to Grozny," he added.
Alkhan-Yurt is a few km (miles) southwest of Grozny.
Udugov, whose report could not immediately be confirmed independently, said the Chechen leadership had issued a statement blaming the acting head of troops in Chechnya, Konstantin Pulikovsky.
"It said General Pulikovsky will carry personal responsibility for this before the whole Chechen people no matter how long it takes," he said.
"It also appealed to the so-called international community which propagates human rights to find some way to react to this bloody crime and reject this policy of double standards."
The husband of a Massachusetts woman who committed suicide in the presence of Dr. Jack Kevorkian disputed on Tuesday a Michigan medical examiner's autopsy, calling him "insensitive" and accusing the examiner of pursuing "his own agenda."
Psychiatrist Franklin Curren, the husband of Judith Curren, said at an impromptu news conference on his front lawn that the coroner was "insensitive and does a disservice. He's got his own agenda. Some people are, highly illogically, trying to deal with the issue by saying my wife wasn't sick."
Oakland County, Michigan, medical examiner Dr. Ljubisa Dragovic, a longtime Kevorkian critic, said on Monday an autopsy on Judith Curren showed she was overweight and depressed, but showed no signs of chronic fatigue syndrome or other significant disease process.
The medical examiner's conclusions and police reports showing that Franklin Curren allegedly assaulted his wife raised troubling questions about Kevorkian and renewed debate over assisted suicide.
Curren said Dragovic's suggestion his wife's judgment was jarred by painkillers and she took her life because she was overweight belittled people who suffer from the mysterious disease.
"How can he diagnose depression on a cadaver?" he asked reporters. "The premise behind that is that anyone who takes medication is irrational or drug-addicted. She was not incompetent because she took medication," he said.
Curren said his wife suffered from fibromyalgia and chronic fatigue for 20 years and in recent years was unable to read, watch television, or even spend more than 20 minutes a day with their daughters, aged 10 and seven.
The two daughters peeked out a window of the family's two-story clapboard house in this leafy Boston suburb while their father talked.
Last week the Currens flew from Pembroke to Detroit, where Judith Curren committed suicide in the presence of the noted pathologist.
Curren, a 42-year-old registered nurse, became the 35th person to die in Kevorkian's presence. She weighed 260 pounds and was 5 feet 1 inch tall.
Curren said his wife first told him she planned to commit suicide four years ago, and his refusal to help her led to a series of arguments, which flared up during particularly emotional phases of her illness, Curren said.
She filed domestic assault charges against him in late July and reports said sought a restraining order against him three years ago, according to police reports.
News reports also said police responded to at least eight 911 calls from Judith Curren asking for help or from neighbours who complained of fighting at their earlier residence in Winchester, Massachusetts, from 1989 to 1994.
Curren was facing a court hearing on Oct. 5 on the assault charges, according to Boston media reports.
"The stress of the family situation was that I wasn't going along with the decision to take her life. That was the stress. It wasn't family stress leading her to not want to be here," he said. "Every time she made these accusations she retracted them and never went to court."
Curren said he finally agreed to honour her decision to die in March when she said she would divorce him, if necessary, to keep him from interfering.
"As time went on, she would say to me, 'Frank, why are you making me suffer?' And I would say, 'I'm not, I'm your husband, I'm trying to help you.' She said, 'Don't you realise that by keeping me alive, you're making me suffer. There's no help available. And I can't stand my life of lying in bed."
Curren said on rare occassions, once every six to 12 months, when his wife ran out of painkillers, he would prescribe the drugs for her, in accordance with medical treatments surpervised by "one of the world's pre-eminent psychopharmacologists" in New York. He declined to name the New York doctor.
He said he met Tuesday for about two hours with two members of the state medical board, who questioned him about doctors' allegations he improperly prescribed narcotics with other patients.
The Cambodian government has approved plans to join the International Finance Corporation with help from a grant from Australia, a senior Finance Ministry official said on Tuesday.
"The cabinet has approved the decision for Cambodia to become a member of IFC by buying 339 IFC shares worth $339,000. I think it's very good," Finance Secretary of State Chanthol Sun said.
He said he expected the national assembly to endorse the decision next month, followed by a formal application, while a senior MP said parliament was expected to hold a special session in September to approve several international agreements.
Australia said in December it would provide the $339,000 to enable Cambodia to join the Washington-based group.
Chanthol Sun said membership of the IFC, a World Bank affiliate, "will encourage more private investments from the private sector, it will definitively boost investments".
Failed Australian businessman Alan Bond was sentenced to three years in jail on Tuesday for fraud involving the French impressionist painting, La Promenade.
Bond, who became a national hero in 1983 for winning the America's Cup yachting trophy, had appealed for a non-custodial sentence. His lawyer argued that a jail term could kill him.
But Judge Antoinette Kennedy said she was satisfied Bond's "health problems could be monitored within the prison system".
Bond was found guilty of improperly using his position as director of his former corporate flagship, Bond Corporation Holdings, to allow his private company to buy Edouard Manet's La Promenade from Bond Corp for A$2.5 million (US$1.9 million), when its value was at least A$12 million.
Bond's Dallhold Investments Pty Ltd sold the painting a year later at auction in New York for A$17 million.
Northern Venture - (built 1995) 64,800 dwt 14 on 29.8 del Taiwan 1-10/9 three to five months redel Singapore-Japan range $8,500 daily K Line.
Rubin Pioneer - (built 1993) - 69,235 dwt 14 on 30 del Gladstone 10-20/9 trip Japan $7,500 daily plus $95,000 bb K Line.
Elli B - 62,632 dwt 13 on 29 plus 2.5 del Nopac 26-29/8 Egyptian Med $4,500 daily plus $105,000 bb MISR (amended).
Aegean Clipper - (built 1983) 31,430 dwt 13.5 on 27 plus 1.6 del Japan prompt trip North Australia $6,000 daily MOSK.
London insurance companies that survived the shakeout of the late 1980s and early 1990s are now more solidly capitalised and professionally managed, Standard & Poor's said in a report on Tuesday.
With larger players taking greater shares of risk, and a shift away from traditional ways of doing business, London is still the pre-eminent market for specialised risk, S&P said.
"Client demand for high levels of security and the arrival in London of large underwriting units with high levels of capacity have been coupled with a shrinkage of traditional subscription business in recent years," the report said.
After poor underwriting results and loss reserve deterioration, many companies have been driven out of the market, the agency said.
Most insurers in London are now part of multinationals based elsewhere and this has brought a more professional and disciplined approach to underwriting, the report said.
"This trend towards more professional players and better market discipline is mirrored by events at Lloyd's," Potter said. "The number of syndicates operating has contracted dramatically, and corporate capital has become intertwined with that of the company market."
"In the mid-1980s new companies were entering the London market with as little as five million stg in capital. Mergers and use of capital markets mean that the level is now much higher, and the agency believes that new participants would now require at least 50 million stg in initial capital."
S&P said an upward trend of its ratings of London market companies over the last two years was partly due to guarantees and support from strong parents.
"But increased professionalism means that most companies are stronger now in their own right," the agency said.
CMC Industries, Inc.
Standard & Poor's said the 1996/1997 deficit-cutting Australian budget delivered on Tuesday appears to reflect improvements in the country's fiscal health.
"It does appear, on the surface, to be a significant fiscal tightening," said Roger Scher, assistant director of Standard & Poor's sovereign ratings group.
"There are substantial spending cuts," Scher said, adding "improvements in public finances of this nature, that persist over the medium term, could only mean improvements in the commonwealth's creditworthiness."
Australia's new conservative government announced it would run a A$5.6 billion (US$4.4 billion) underlying deficit for the fiscal year to June 30, 1997. The budget trimmed A$3.9 billion from hundreds of government programs in order to achieve the savings.
The projected A$5.6 billion underlying deficit is less than half the A$10.3 billion shortfall in 1995/1996. The 1996/1997 headline result, which takes all figures into account, is a A$474 million surplus.
Manila shares continued to languish in negative territory on Tuesday as investor caution prevailed ahead of the U.S. Fed meeting, traders said.
"There's just a lack of any incentive to trade," said Archie Arambulo, a trader at Philippine Asia Equity Securities.
Traders said profit-taking was focused on property issues due to the effect of a possible hike in U.S. interest rate. "The view is that if the Fed raises interest rates, local interest rates will follow," explained one trader.
Filinvest Land Inc dropped 20 centavos to 8.70 pesos and C & P Homes Inc fell one peso to 20 pesos.
CBOT soybean oil delivery notices for delivery against the August contract on August 21 (In contracts).
SOYOIL - 983 lots. Up to August 19, 1996.
Delivered - term commodities/h 484, kenosha/h 134, 1st option/c 365.
Received - prudential/c 185, refeco/c 26, kenosha/h 126, 1st option/c 268, adm investor services/h 378.
H=house account. C=Customer Account.
Source: Chicago Board of Trade Clearing Corp.
Daiwa Institute of Research Ltd has assigned Nippon Soda Co Ltd a "A" rating, Daiwa Securities brokers said on Wednesday.
In its three-grade rating system, the research institute assigns an "A" rating to issues whose values it sees outperforming the Tokyo Stock Exchange first-section TOPIX index by more than 10 percentage points over the next six months.
Measures by the National Bank of Slovakia to ease the country's money supply may not be working, as a mounting liquidity surplus continues to drive prices down on the money market, analysts said on Tuesday.
They said the market's burgeoning liquidity, which is seen driving rates down by some two percentage points to about 10 percent on all maturities, points to the ineffectiveness of the NBS's recent moves to take money out of circulation.
"The central bank will have to take other measures to stem the money supply, as the effect of the tool it chose to do so is partly eliminated by short-term foreign capital inflows," Jozef Bozek of Tatra Banka told Reuters.
Last month, the NBS drove interbank interest rates to over 14 percent when, in a move to curtail banks' short-term lending, hiked minimum reserves significantly as of August 1.
That, dealers said, in tandem with an earlier hike in the Lombard rate to 15 percent from a previous 13 percent, appears to be backfiring as speculative capital floods the country taking advantage of attractive real interest rates and a steady currency.
The Slovak key money supply measure, M2, rose 21.5 percent year-on-year, compared to a full-year target of a 11.6 percent expansion year-on-year.
While some dealers said that as long as the rates hang above 10 percent foreign speculators will remain interested in the crown, though Robert Hakszer of Slovenska Sporitelna noted: "In the longer-term, rates could slowly ease to 10-12 percent, spoiling some of the crown's attraction."
"It would be enough to bring rates to below the Czech Republic's level to cut down a bit on crown speculation," he added.
The Prague interbank offered rate (PRIBOR) for one month funds on Tuesday averaged 12.67 percent compared to 13.05 percent on the Bratislava interbank offered rate (BRIBOR).
The NBS also recently moved to strengthen the crown within the plus or minus five percent band of a dollar/mark basket midpoint it uses to fix the currency daily, further attracting foreign capital.
"The revalued crown boosted the central bank foreign exchange reserves, and eventually the market liquidity," said Dalibor Cernicka, a dealer with Istrobanka.
"Even if foreign investors pull out, their package is not so significant to have any major impact on the country, though it could temporarily toss the crown exchange rate," Bozek said.
The NBS hard currency reserves rose to $3.71 billion as of August 14, from $3.43 billion on July 24, pouring out onto the money market and catching analysts who were expecting a puacity of funds off guard.
No official figures are available yet, but analysts estimate that some six billion crowns flooded onto the market from the reserves, while the same amount entered through maturing NBS liquidity bills, another NBS sterilisation tool.
NBS officials were not available for comment, but the central bank has said it is still "early" to analyse the effect of the measures, and warned it could even resort to imposing credit limits on banks if its money supply measures would not work.
NWE jet fuel premiums were assessed steady on Tuesday with buyers and sellers fairly relaxed, while Med prices surged higher with the market short of EU standard material, traders said.
Dealers said that Libyan cargoes were on offer in the Med, but demand for European refinery material was still uncovered, with bids as high as quotes fob high +$9 fob Italy.
In the north, a trading house looking for a cargo for delivery before September 10 was bidding at Sept IPE +$28 a tonne cif NWE. Fob premiums were pegged unchanged around Sept +$20 fob NWE.
Bulgaria's finance ministry will offer 2.0 billion levs worth of one-year floater coupon T-bills at an auction on Monday, the Bulgarian National Bank (BNB) said.
The issue will be offered with no minimum acceptable price set in advance by the ministry, a BNB statement said.
The coupon was set equal to the BNB's central interest rate (CIR) for the period to maturity. The CIR is now set at an annual 108 percent.
Settlement for the auction would be made on Wednesday at the average accepted price.
Share prices closed higher with buying again focusing on second liners, while blue chips continued to track a tight trading range, dealers said.
"There was some renewed buying of blue chips in the afternoon but the focus remained on Second Board stocks," said one institutional dealer.
Market volume was 190 million shares, with gainers leading losers 290 to 258.
Khong Guan and Setron led volumes, rising 4.60 ringgit and 60 cents respectively to 18.80 and 6.80 ringgit. Khong Guan recently proposed to acquire a 32 percent stake in Setron through a share issue.
Blue chips Tenaga Nasional, Telekom Malaysia and Genting gained between five and 20 cents each. But Malaysia International Shipping Corp fell 30 cents to 7.40 ringgit on the back of lower half-year earnings.
NOTE - Tokki Corp is a maker of factory automation equipment.
-- Morgan Stanley said it started coverage of AMP Inc as neutral.
-- The stock closed Monday at 38-3/4.
Commission spokesman Nikolaus van der Pas told reporters Competition Commissioner Karel Van Miert would speak by telephone to German Economics Minister Guenter Rexrodt later on Tuesday about the Saxony subsidies case (see BC-STATE AID-VOLKSWAGEN, moving shortly). He said he would brief reporters later on Tuesday about the outcome.
- IP/96/797: Commission clears Siemens and Sommer Allibert joint venture.
- IP/96/798: Commission clears General Electric's CompuNet purchase.
- IP/96/799: Commission clears Kloeckner Stahlund Metallhandel buy of 62 percent share in ARUS Distribution Industrielle SA.
- IP/96/800: Commission makes 251 million Ecus available to SMEs in Spain.
- ME96/20.8: Midday Express.
Trading and telecommunication company Transmarco saw 720,000 shares crossed early Tuesday morning between Singapore $6.75 and S$8.00, dealers said.
At 0127 GMT, Transmarco shot up S$0.65 to S$9.50 on volume of 1.35 million shares, including the crossed deal.
"It's a cornered stock with no big sellers. If the price had been pushed to S$13.50 before, it can happen again," said a dealer.
Bosnia could still create the minimal conditions necessary for free and fair elections on September 14 if its formerly warring factions guarantee freedom of movement, OSCE Chairman Flavio Cotti said on Tuesday.
"I believe if this freedom of movement for citizens would be guaranteed, the main condition for minimal, correct elections would be given," Cotti said in Sarajevo after meeting Bosnia's Moslem-Croat federation president, Kresimir Zubak.
"We hope this will be the case elsewhere, specifically in the (Bosnian) Serb republic, because -- as I repeat -- this is certainly the most important condition for elections."
The OSCE (Organisation for Security and Cooperation in Europe) is supervising the Bosnian elections with a mandate provided under the Dayton peace agreement.
Zubak said federation officials would guarantee freedom of movement on their 51 per cent of Bosnia. Similar commitments in the past have not been realised even among Moslems and Croats.
Bosnian Serbs control the other 49 per cent of Bosnia, and what is supposed to be an administrative boundary between their republic and the federation has become something closer to a formal border.
Thus the more than 1.5 million Bosnian refugees and displaced persons have been effectively denied the opportunity to cross de facto ethnic boundary lines to return to their homes.
The OSCE's head of mission in Bosnia, Robert Frowick, has acknowledged that the September 14 election is unlikely to be free or fair when measured by Western democratic standards.
Both he and Cotti insist, however, that the balloting must go forward despite what independent observers say are crippling limitations.
In addition to restrictions on freedom of movement there is virtually no freedom of the press in Serb or Croat-held territory in Bosnia.
The OSCE's own election-monitoring unit reported recently that the voter registration process among Serb refugees and displaced persons had been manipulated for territorial advantage to a degree that constituted fraud.
Ruling Bosnian Moslem and Serb nationalist parties have been harassing and intimidating opposition candidates in some of the areas they control.
Asked on Tuesday if conditions for elections existed at present, Cotti said only that there had been some progress since his June decision to go ahead with the elections.
But in a small sign that progress was still possible, the Bosnian Serb nationalist SDS party in Zvornik heeded a warning to remove campaign posters featuring former president Radovan Karadzic or risk disqualification from upcoming elections.
"European Community monitors surveyed the town and reported back to me that they found only one Karadzic poster in a public place on a garage wall near the local hospital," international mediator Carl Bildt told Reuters on Tuesday.
"It looks as if the warning has had an effect, which is good. Let's hope that it lasts. I have also written to the SDS leadership indicating that I have yet to see an SDS poster anywhere without Karadzic's face on it."
Intense Western pressure forced Karadzic to quit the Bosnian Serb presidency last month, under Dayton clauses which prohibit people indicted for war crimes -- such as Karadzic -- from holding public office or playing any part in September's poll.
"Our deep wish is that these elections will really be able to present, as provided in the Dayton agreement, the first step on the long road to reconstruction -- not only reconstruction of democracy but also of economic welfare," Cotti said.
Iran has protested to Olympics officials over what it said was the refusal of an American athlete to take part in an Atlanta Paralympics medals ceremony where the Iranian anthem was played, a newspaper reported on Tuesday.
The daily Resalat said Vice-President Mostafa Hashemi-Taba wrote to International Olympic Committee President Juan Antonio Samaranch saying it was against the Olympic charter for the medal-winning U.S. shot putter not to stand on the podium during the ceremony in which an Iranian athlete received a gold medal.
"If the Olympics were a place for political demonstrations, it would be the certain right of the Iranian nation to demonstrate against the American government's numerous military, economic and political aggressive acts," Hashemi-Taba said.
"But this is not done due to respect for the Olympic charter and the spirit of the games," added Hashemi-Taba who also heads Iran's National Olympic Committee.
Hashemi-Taba said the incident took place during the medals ceremony for a shot put event won by Iran's Qader Modabber. He did not give the date or name the U.S. athlete.
The Paralympics Games for disabled athletes started in Atlanta on Friday. There was no independent confirmation of the incident.
*A = International reserves (gold, currency, securities, including repos and reverse repos).
 B = Liquidity requirements.
 C = International reserves in the financial system.
*D = Monetary base.
 E = Currency liabilities.
 F = Net repurchase tender agreements.
 G = Bank liquidity paper.
 H = Financial liabilities.
*A  Of the $19.56 billion in international reserves, $2.59 billion (13.22 pct) are in securities.
*D  There are currently no peso-denominated current accounts at the Central Bank.
-- Credit Lyonnais Securities said it is maintaining its buy recommendation and raising its 12-month price target on Brazilian state-owned power utility Cemig.
-- In a report, cited Cemig's better-than-expected year-to-date performance.
-- "We are revising upward our earnings forecast for Cemig with annual compound earnings growth for the next three years at 28 percent, up from 10 percent," it said.
-- The bank also said the 33-percent stake in Cemig will be sold by Minas Gerais state to a strategic foreign partner-operator "at a considerable premium to market value."
-- Credit Lyonnais also said the new management would enhance Cemig's strategic position as the sector is opened to competition.
-- The bank said the power sector's fundamentals are improving and it recommends investors be overweight in Brazilian electrical utilities stocks.
-- "Cemig is one of our top picks and should improve its fundamentals with a new private partner," Credit Lyonnais said.
-- It added the power firm trades at a discount to both Brazilian and Latin American power utilities.
-- Credit Lyonnais's raising of its 12-month price target for Cemig to 45 reais is a 41-percent hike from present levels of 38 reais, the bank said.
-- Cemig preferred were down 1.58 percent at 31.10 reais at 1554 local/1854 gmt on the Sao Paulo Stock Exchange.
Add attendance: 31,010.
Mixed economic data and a touch of political pressure might be the recipe for steady monetary policy through the U.S. presidential election on November 5 pundits and former Federal Reserve officials said.
Members of the Federal Open Market Committee are expected to be careful as they juggle upcoming key data, such as the August employment report on September 6, and the vicissitudes of the political race for the White House.
"That means that the odds build up about no action. No action is safer than some action," added Martin, currently the chairman of HomeVest Financial Services Inc in San Francisco.
The Fed opted to hold short-term rates steady on Tuesday during the year's fifth meeting of its policy-setting arm. The central bank's target for the federal funds rate remains at 5.25 percent. The discount rate is unchanged at 5.0 percent.
"I think they will stand still and await clarification on where the economy is going," said Lyle Gramley, a former Fed governor and currently an economist at the Mortgage Bankers Association of America.
How long could that take? "Well, I think the Fed will move sometime later this year... It may well be until very late this year, possibly even December, before the Fed knows for sure whether it needs to move or not," Gramley added.
Martin agreed that the Fed is likely to remain on hold, "not just because of the election, but because this (current economic scene) is a central banker nirvana."
Martin cited a positive inflation outlook as one of the main reasons keeping the Fed on hold over the next few months.
"Before the Fed can either raise or cut interest rates in an election year, they better have a solid economic justification for doing that," said Sung Won Sohn, chief economist at Norwest Corp.
"Without the justifications, they would rather wait," he added.
Earlier this month, Sen. Robert Bennett, R-Utah, an adviser to Republican presidential candidate Bob Dole, has urged changing the law that gives the Fed a dual mandate to fight inflation and promote maximum employment.
Bennett and Sen. Connie Mack, R-Fla are co-sponsoring a bill that would make fighting inflation the U.S. central bank's only mandate.
"So the FOMC members will be careful about the appearance of overzealousness or on the other hand disregard of ... inflation," Martin said.
In the event of an interest rate hike, analysts said the Clinton campaign would have more to lose than Republican challenger Bob Dole.
But then again, it would be hard for the Clinton administration to criticize any possible Fed action just a few months after the president nonimated Alan Greenspan as the Fed chairman for a fresh four-year mandate.
"If Mr. Greenspan were to raise rates, I think Mr. Clinton would get hurt ... That would put the Administration in an awkward position," Sohn's said.
Thus, analysts said the relationship among the White House, the Treasury and the Fed has usually been very amicable, ranging from weekly breakfasts to tennis matches.
"The Fed would never surprise the Treasury. There is frequent contact between Fed and White House and Treasury officials," Martin said. "I used to play tennis with those guys. The Fed has a tennis court, amazingly enough."
However, the mere fact a presidential race was underway has not prevent the Fed from shifting monetary policy in the past. If needed, the Fed could hike rates as soon as September, analysts agreed.
Recent history shows the Fed raised rates during the presidential campaigns in 1980 (Aug 22) and in 1988 (Aug 9), analysts noted.
Arctco Inc said Tuesday its board of directors and stockholders have approved a corporate name change, effective immediately, to Arctic Cat Inc which is also the company's registered trademark.
Arctic Cat said its board recommended this change as a result of numerous requests from both customers and dealers.
Arctic Cat designs, makes and markets snowmobiles, all-terrain vehicles and personal watercraft.
PT Telekomunikasi Indonesia (Telkom) closed at 28 in New York on Tuesday. It recorded the day's low of 27-7/8 and the day's high of 28-1/4.
Volume was 51,300 American Depository Shares. Block volume was 20,000.
It previous close on Monday was 27-5/8. One ADS represents 20 ordinary shares. -- Jakarta newsroom (Tel: 6221-3846364).
The U.S. Federal Reserve meets on Tuesday to discuss the future course of interest rates and is widely expected to keep rates steady amid mixed signals on the economy.
"The speeches made by various Fed governors and by bank presidents recently are not pointing toward tightening," said Preston Martin, chairman of HomeVest Financial Services Inc. in San Francisco.
"I would think the odds are very heavily weighted toward the prospect that there will be no change at the next policy making meeting," said Martin, a former Fed vice chairman.
The Fed's policy-making Federal Open Market Committee is due to start meeting at 9 a.m. EDT (1300 GMT). If past practice is followed, any decision by the FOMC should be announced around 2:15 p.m. EDT (1815 GMT).
Martin's forecast was shared unanimously by the 30 economists polled last week by Reuters, although some of those experts did not rule out an interest-rate rise later this year.
The Fed meeting takes place at a time when questions abound about whether the economy is beginning to cool off after growing at a fast clip in the second quarter.
Until just a few weeks ago, many economists believed that the economy was growing quickly enough to require an interest-rate rise by the Fed to slow it down and prevent inflation. However, a series of recent reports containing early signs of a slowdown changed those views.
"We had data very recently showing the housing market is starting to fade and the inflation reports were good," said Joel Prakken, chairman at the St. Louis forecasting firm Macroeconomic Associates Advisors LLC.
"All of that suggests we are seeing a slowdown from the second quarter and that the Fed does not need to move," he added.
Some experts, however, said the economic signs were inconclusive and did not rule out a rate rise later this year.
Any rate increase would represent a reversal in the Fed's monetary policy. The previous rate change was in January, the last of a series of credit easings undertaken when the economy appeared soft. The economy has rebounded strongly since then.
The federal funds rate, which commercial banks charge each other for overnight cash, is now at 5.25 percent. The funds rate is controlled by the Fed and acts as a benchmark for other short-term interest rates.
The discount rate, which the Fed charges member banks for loans, stands at 5 percent.
These are some of the leading stories in the Bahraini press on Tuesday. Reuters has not verified these stories and does not vouch for their accuracy.
- Bahrain's economy will witness positive developments, various sectors achieve higher economic growth.
- Crown Prince Sheikh Hamad meets Oman's minister of state for foreign affairs. Talks covered ways of settling disputes between Gulf Arab states.
- Bahraini-Jordanian joint committee meets next month in Amman.
- Second biggest hospital in Bahrain built at a cost of 1.5 million dinars is due to be completed next month.
- Official sources: Half of the members of the new Shura council will be selected from the boards of national societies.
- Better labour ties sought. A campaign is being waged to forge better ties between workers and managements.
- Partial production of the first Bahrain-made vehicle battery begins on Tuesday at Gulf Powerbeat.
- Gulf Arab states face huge capital costs to meet growing demands for energy, economist says.
Taiwan's money rates slid at mid-session on Tuesday as liquidity remained stable following the central bank's persistent fund injection, dealers said.
The overnight interbank rate was at 5.388 percent against Monday's 5.436 percent end, with 30-day commercial paper at 5.40-5.50 against 5.50. The central bank injected T$8.665 billion in funds into the banking system on Tuesday.
Rubber futures finished marginally higher on Tuesday in light trade with most dealers still uncertain about the market's direction, dealers said.
"We're falling asleep again because it was so quiet in the market. The tonnages were very small and the major buyers remain on the outside looking in," a local rubber trader said.
Higher prices in Tokyo boosted local sentiment, dealers said. Tokyo's benchmark January contract rose 1.2 yen to 137.0 although Kobe's January contract was unchanged at 137.5 yen.
At around 0945 GMT, October RSS-1 was seen at 185.00-187.00 Singapore cents (US$1.31-$1.32) a kg against Monday's close of 185.00 cents.
October RSS-3 was at 127.00-129.00 U.S. cents a kg from 127.75 cents.
October TSR-20 was seen at 175.00-177.00 Singapore cents (US$1.24-$1.25) per kg from 174.00 cents.
Belgian shares ended Tuesday with modest gains but still lagged other markets.
The Bel-20 index had to battle its way through resistance above 1,750. It ended 6.88 points or 0.39 percent higher at 1,760.15, virtually the day's high, with volume a fairly moderate 1.5 billion francs worth of Belgian shares.
"The market started out quite dull but picked up in the afternoon. It was the holding companies which held us back," one dealer said. Societe Generale De Belgique was unchanged at 2,405 francs and Group Bruxelles Lambert lost 15 francs to 3,980.
Dealers could find no key reason for why holdings should have underperformed, citing just a "lack of enthusiasm".
Kredietbank was among the most heavily traded stocks in value terms, closing unchanged at 9,350 with 13,686 shares changing hands. "It remains one of the more expensive Belgian banks in terms of price-earnings. You're paying for quality, though it would have to drop 15 to 20 percent before I'd consider it a buy," one dealer said.
All eyes were now turned to the U.S. where the Federal Reserve's policy-making FOMC meets on Tuesday, though it is not expected to decide on a change in U.S interest rates.
The prospect of Thursday's Bundesbank meeting is providing more suspense, amid growing hopes for a German repo rate cut, dealers said.
The purchasing power of Central Organisation of Finnish Trade Unions (SAK) families is projected to rise by nearly three percent in 1997, SAK said in a statement on Tuesday.
Earlier agreed pay rises due to take effect this autumn and wage drift would raise purchasing power a bit more, but part of the increase would be offset by higher energy taxation, it said.
"All in all, the family's purchasing power would rise next year by about three percent if the (government's budget) decisions are implemented," SAK said.
The calculated increase was based on a model family with two children and both parents at work, one earning 11,241 markka per month before tax, the other 8,920 markka per month before tax.
Excluding the impact of the autumn pay rises and of the higher electricity bill, such a family's disposable income after tax, including state child benefits not subject to tax, would increase by some 2.8 percent, or 5,037 markka, to 187,200 markka in 1997, SAK said.
Appliance maker Tsann Kuen (China) Enterprise Co Ltd said on Tuesday its net earnings fell to 26.23 million yuan in the first half of this year from 35.55 million yuan in the same period of 1995.
Per-share earnings were 0.14 yuan, against 0.18 yuan in the first half of 1995, said the company's interim report published in the Securities Times.
Its main operating income hit 408.81 million yuan between January and June 1996 versus 315.47 million in 1995.
Tsann Kuen blamed its earnings slide on increased global competition which had forced it to cut its prices, and phasing out of its tax exempt status.
The firm, set up in 1993, was entitled to a three-year corporate income tax break because of its status as a Taiwan-invested enterprise, and would pay income tax at a reduced 7.5 percent rate from 1996 to 2000, a company spokesman said.
Tsann Kuen, which has class B shares listed in Shenzhen, saw net earnings in 1995 dive 41.6 percent from 1994.
The company had after-tax profits of 38.39 million yuan in 1995, compared with 65.81 million yuan in 1994.
The auction will be held at 1100 EDT/1500 GMT with results announced at 1130 EDT/1530 GMT. The bills will be dated and delivered on August 22 and will mature on September 12, the Bank of Canada said.
The tender is subject to standard auction terms.
Australia and New Zealand Banking Group Ltd filed Tuesday with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission a shelf registration for up to $1 billion in debt securities.
When combined with previous registrations, the banking group will have up to $1.3 billion in debt securities.
Net proceeds will be used for general corporate purposes and, in the case of subordinated debt securities, to strengthen the capital base, the filing said.
Israel sought to reassure its citizens on Tuesday following reports that Syria had recently tested a long-range Scud missile capable of hitting targets across the Jewish state.
Israel test fired its Arrow 2 anti-missile missile on Tuesday as its media reported that Syria was holding military exercises.
Israel's Channel Two television reported on Monday that Syria had tested several weeks ago a Scud C missile, capable of hitting Israeli cities.
The reports signalled rising tensions fuelled by a deadlock in Middle East peace talks since Likud leader Benjamin Netanyahu won Israeli elections in May.
"Syria had been arming itself with Scud missiles for quite some time. What it's doing now is moving from purchase to manufacture. They're trying to manufacture these Scuds," Netanyahu told reporters.
"But they're the same Scuds with the same capabilities. So there is no new strategic factor in the equation between Syria and Israel," he said.
Israeli Defence Minister Yitzhak Mordechai, commenting on reports of Syrian military exercises, told Israel Radio: "I propose we do not connect that to any sort of tension. It's possible that they're worried on the other side..."
"I would suggest that you not create tensions and false pressures," Mordechai said.
Tension between Syria and Israel escalated after Netanyahu said Israel would retain the Golan Heights, captured from Syria in the 1967 Middle East war. Peace talks between Israel and Syria have made little headway for over four years.
Zeev Maoz, head of the Jaffee Centre for Strategic Studies, Israel's best known think-tank, said on Sunday the probability of war with Syria had increased with Netanyahu's election. Maoz said Netanyahu's position could push Damascus to try to break a diplomatic stalemate by starting a war.
Lebanon and Syria have both publicly rejected Netanyahu's "Lebanon First" proposal -- by which Israel would withdraw from south Lebanon for the right security guarantees -- as a ploy to avoid handing the strategic Golan Heights back to Damascus.
Syria accused Israel on Tuesday of beating war drums in the Middle East and said that the Jewish state would lose in any conflict with the Arab world.
On Monday Netanyahu warned, during his first visit to Israeli-occupied south Lebanon since his election, that pro-Iranian Hizbollah guerrilla raids on Israeli forces would only worsen the situation.
"It is not good for Syria, Lebanon or Hizbollah or Israel. Therefore our choice is to try to reach a calming of the situation and guaranteeing security for all," Netanyahu said.
Israel says Syria, the main power broker in Lebanon where it has 35,000 troops, could curb Hizbollah guerrillas fighting to oust Israel from south Lebanon.
A senior source in Netanyahu's government said Israel was not trying to heat up the situation with Syria.
"There is no intention to heat up the border with Syria," a government source who spoke on condition he not be named told Reuters.
Israeli Foreign Minister David Levy said that missile tests were not the way to signal a desire for peace.
"If Syria wants peace, the tone and style is not with missiles or weapons like that," Levy told reporters.
The overnight interbank rate was at 7.5 percent around 0645 GMT against 6.00/10 at close on Monday, dealers said on Tuesday.
The dealers said rates could rise further by the close  of the day, though that would depend on the volume of funds taken in by Bank Negara.
"Going by the rates at which it has taken money, it looks like (Negara) has cleaned out the market. It has covered the entire range in which one-month was being traded," said the head of money dealing at a foreign bank.
Earlier, other interbank rates rose by 10-20 basis points immediately after the intervention.
One-week money was at 6.80/00 percent against 6.50/60 and two-week at 6.90/00 against 6.60/70.
There were gains in longer-term rates too. The three-month interbank rate was up at 7.20/25 against 7.15/18 in early trading and six-month money rose to 7.25/30 against 7.23/25.
Earlier, Bank Negara Malaysia returned to the market after nearly three months to borrow for a one-month deposit at 6.95 to 7.05 percent against 6.95 previously.
But it has not been in the market since May 24, despite rising liquidity that has pressured rates downward, threatening to thwart the Bank's tight monetary policy.
Money market dealers said the intervention indicated that Bank Negara has not eased its tight monetary policy.
While the volume that Bank Negara took was not known, it appears to have given a psychological boost to interest rates, particularly short-term rates, dealers said.
Kapitan Hiotis 400 18/09 Mideast/Red Sea W63.75 Mobil.
New Victory 291 22/09 Mideast/South Africa W65 Engen.
Evelyn Maersk 275 05/09 Mideast/Singapore W65 Sietco.
Agios Nikolaos 275 05/09 Mideast/USG-UKC W56.5-59 KPC.
Golden Fountain 260 05/09 Mideast/South Africa W65 Shell SA.
World Phoenix 250 03/09 Mideast/South Korea W65 Hanwha.
Cosmo Artemis 250 06/09 Mideast/Sriracha W65 ThaiOil.
New Nevis 80 19/08 Yanbu/Fujairah W110 Mobil.
Kiku Pacific 85 27/08 China/Lawi Lawi $265,000 COOC.
Loul'Wat Qatar 80 27/08 Indonesia/Med rnr Trafigura.
Harrier 60 25/08 Indonesia/USG $800,000 Bitor.
Greek Fighter 120 27/08 Novorossisk/Cuba rnr Trafigura.
Autan 260 16/09 W.Africa/USG W62.5 Arcadia.
Tromso Fidelity 130 10/09 W.Africa/USAC rnr Bayway.
-UK/CONT.
Berge Septimus 275 13/09 Mongstad/E.C.Canada W67.5 Irving.
									Statoil.
Umm Said 84 28/08 Sture/USAC W110 Bayway.
Lundqvist TBN 80 08/09 North Sea/UKC W105 DOW.
Thorsaga 80 30/08 Tees/Rotterdam rnr Conoco.
Olympic Serenity 76 26/08 Caribs/Brazil W122.5 Petrobras.
Deneb 70 21/08 Caribs/USG W130 Basis.
Atlantia 70 29/08 Mexico/USG rnr Pecten.
Meteora 70 30/08 Caribs/USAC rnr SUN.
Bona Sparrow 70 29/08 Covenas/USG rnr Unknown Charterers.
Constitution 75 25/08 Dos Bocas/Smith's Bluff W120 Mobil.
Sao Sebastiao 55 16/09 Argentina/USG W130 Exxon.
Heidmar TBN prompt USG/Caribs rnr Maraven.
Daqing 91 50 23/08 Ecuador/Caribs rnr Maraven.
SPC 240 Mideast/Singapore 16/09.
Banoco 80 Mideast/Far East 7-9/09.
Elf 80 Algeria/Med 30/08.
BP 80 Banias/Med 30/08.
BP 80 Arzew/Med 31/08.
Exxon 76/84 La Skhirra/Augusta 29-31/08.
Elf 80 USAC/UKC 1-2/09.
Ashland 78 Mexico/USG 28-29/08.
Nynes 70 Caribs/UKC 30/08.
Petrobras 170 mbs Puerta La Cruz/Brazil 23-25/09.
STB 240 Mideast/Singapore 16/09.
SSangyong 250 Ras Tanura/Onsan 5-6/09.
Chevron 80 Nanhai/Australia 4-5/09.
IPCO 35 fuel oil Klaipeda/UKC 19-25/08.
EneMalta 20 fuel oil Priolo/Malta 22-24/09.
Stentex 130 Dumai/USG 15/09.
Slovak top shares were mostly quiet in thin trading on the Bratislava Stock Exchange (BSE) on Tuesday, with gains to shares of VUB bank helping push the SAX index up 0.65 points to new year-high of 226.34.
The country's largest commercial bank VUB closed up 200 crowns at 2,300 crowns, on a volume of 498 traded shares. Brokers said one unidentified investor has been apparently building up a position in VUB.
"If it's really so, this investor must be in hurry, as I see the price in VUB as being a bit artificially and too quickly pushed up," Patrik Granec of Slovenska Sporitelna said.
Slovak parliament effectively postponed further privatisation of shares in the country's banks until at least the end of March next year, but analysts said the investor could be building a position anticipating the state selloff.
Investment fund VUB Kupon dominated the listless trading on the BSE floor, with closing price at 760 crowns, down 40, on a volume of 14,491 traded shares.
"I expect further decline in VUB Kupon issue, as the price is likely pulled down by one of the investors struggling for a strategic stake in the fund," Granec said.
Among the few shares traded on the bourse floor, steel maker VSZ closed unchanged at 651 crowns, with 822 traded shares, and oil refinery Slovnaft traded 64 shares, closing up 10 crowns at 1,010.
Brazilian state oil company Petrobras has ramped up its purchases of gas oil and naphtha in August, and traders said it was because of a combination of surging demand and refinery maintenance programmes.
European traders expect Petrobras to have lifted more than 200,000 tonnes of 0.3-0.5 percent sulphur gas oil from the Mediterranean in August, in addition to its 75,000-tonne term contract with Italian refiner Isab.
This compares with a total 700,000 tonnes of gas oil imports from the Mediterranean over the whole of last year, traders said.
In addition, around 150,000 tonnes of August-loading naphtha is thought to have been sold to Brazil out of Europe. Yearly comparisons were not immediately available, but these quantities were thought to be unusually high.
Traders said maintenance at Brazilian refineries in August, most notably at the 250,000 barrels per day Sao Paulo plant, was the reason for the sudden shortage of naphtha.
Officials at Petrobras in London declined to comment on their purchases or on Brazilian refinery activities.
An Italian refiner, commenting on the gas oil purchases, said: "(Brazil) is experiencing very fast economic growth...The main demand (for gas oil) is coming from the transportation sector."
Traders reckon demand for imported gas oil could reach 400,000 tonnes a month over the rest of the year, with most of the product sourced from the Mediterranean.
"It seems that the Med is the best area to buy from. It works out best in terms of freight rates because we can load big vessels," the refiner said.
"And it has worked for us since the arb to the Far East is now closed most of the time."
The only question mark hanging over the fast-growing gas oil trade is the introduction of low sulphur (0.05 percent) diesel as the standard diesel grade across the European Union from October 1.
A wide price differential between grades could make the trade with Brazil uneconomic, traders said.
"If the price (for the low sulphur product) is good, we may lose interest in selling the poorer gas oil," said the refiner.
Bombay shares recovered part of their losses on Tuesday helped by domestic institutional demand after the market plunged on Monday, brokers said.
"It was a combination of local fund buying and short covering," one trader said, referring to the gains. "We'll have to wait till tomorrow to see where the market is headed."
He said the close of weekly account on the NSE halted speculative selling and forced short covering, but the undercurrent was shaky.
The 30-share BSE index closed 33.89 points higher at a provisional 3,315.38 after plummeting 101.26 on Monday.
Traders said foreign institutional investors (FIIs) continued to sell shares of SBI, the country's largest commercial bank, which has plans to issue global depositary receipts (GDRs) for up to $500 million.
"The GDRs are priced on the basis of the underlying stock on the BSE," one trader said. "The FIIs stand to benefit if they can pick up the GDRs cheaply."
However, SBI stock ended 2.25 rupees higher at 266.25 helped by reports it would benefit by 2.0 billion rupees in excess depreciation on government securities in 1995/96 (April-March), he said.
The 50-share NSE index edged up 3.71 points to a provisional 979.71.
Local fund buying helped TISCO gain 3.25 rupees at 183.75, TELCO 10.0 at 465 and BSES 3.50 at 180.50.
Bajaj Auto rallied 17.50 rupees to 990, Hindalco 12.0 to 950, Indian Hotels 9.50 to 767.50, Ranbaxy 8.50 to 608.75, Hind Lever 8.0 to 826.75, Reliance 6.0 to 201 and ITC 4.0 to 286.
Gold Fields of South Africa Ltd said on Tuesday that strong performances in its base metal and non-mining investments helped to offset reduced earnings from gold mining investments in the year ended June 30.
"Chief executive Alan Wright acknowledges that lower dividend receipts from the gold mining investments nevertheless contributed to a five percent decline in earnings," the group said in a statement released late Tuesday.
Mining operations had resumed in the areas affected by underground fires at Driefontein Consolidated Ltd's east and west gold mines, "which should start making a valuable contribution to production", Wright said.
Widespread labour unrest across the industry did not leave operations unscathed and continued to impact on productivity at Gold Fields operations, he said.
Turning to Northam Platinum Ltd, Wright said that considerable progress had been made in introducing new mining methods and he said he expected a positive cash flow from Northam in the coming financial year.
A feasibility study at Gold Fields Ghana's Tarkwa concession had confirmed its viability with gold output from the first phase of the operation estimated at 230,000 ounces a year.
The group's earnings were supported by outstanding contributions from Gold Fields Coal, Zinc Corp of South Africa Ltd and Black Mountain.
Gold Fields posted earnings per share for the year of 393 cents compared to 417 cents in the previous year.
Orange County, Calif.,'s former Treasurer Robert Citron testified Tuesday that he never discussed with the county's former budget director an alleged scheme to divert funds from cities and schools.
Former Budget Director Ronald Rubino, 44, was indicted by a county grand jury in December for allegedly aiding Citron in diverting funds from other government agencies for the county's benefit. Rubino, who has denied any wrongdoing, faces up to nine years in prison if convicted on the felony counts.
During his eargerly awaited testimony Tuesday, Citron told the jury he did not tell Rubino about the alleged transfer of funds, or the alleged manipulation of interest rates in the county-run investment portfolio.
Citron testified that Merrill Lynch & Co. bond salesman Michael Stamenson was well aware of the alleged actions. "I told Mr. Michael Stamenson of Merrill Lynch that we were doing this," Citron testified.
Citron also said that he informed Stamenson monthly about the true investment earnings vs. the interest rate reported to investors in the county portfolio.
Citron's testimony will be closely studied by Orange County's attorneys. The county has sued Merrill Lynch, seeking damages in excess of $2 billion. Merrill Lynch has denied any wrongdoing and is contesting the suit.
In response to Citron's testimony, a Merrill Lynch spokesman in New York said Tuesday that Stamenson never received reports showing different investment pool earnings.
"As we have previously stated, Mr. Stamenson was not involved in the internal record keeping of the Orange County Treasurer's Office," Merrill Lynch spokesman Andrew Sieg said.
During his testimony, Citron alleged that assistant county Treasurer Matthew Raabe came up with the idea of diverting the interest from cities and schools to the county's benefit.
"Mr. Raabe came to me and said we were currently earning tremendous amounts of interest and that, if we kept reporting these very high interest returns, the pool investors would see something wrong in that and pull the money out," Citron said. "(Raabe) suggested we send the money over to the county general fund."
In May 1995, Raabe was indicted on several felony counts, including misappropriating public funds. Raabe has denied wrongdoing. He faces trial in September.
Citron pleaded guilty in April 1995 to six felonies related to the county's financial crisis, including counts of making untrue material statements in the sale of securities and misappropriating public funds.
The Rubino trial has been closely watched by municipal finance experts and public officials in Orange County. The bankruptcy shocked Wall Street and prompted a massive Securities and Exchange Commission probe.
Union Bank of Switzerland says it has issued a total of 10 million American-style call warrants, on Novartis.
50 warrants control one share.
NOTE - Lamex Holdings markets office furniture.
Total dividend for year is 8.5 H.K. cents (including interim dividend of 3.3 cents) vs 5.5 cents.
NationsBanc Capital Markets, Inc.
Bear, Stearns & Co. Inc.
The Australian dollar and bonds both went into quick retreat amid mild disappointment that Treasurer Peter Costello's first federal budget was not as tough as the government had led the markets to believe.
By 8.35 GMT the dollar had sunk to US$0.7860/0.7865 from a pre-budget US$0.7883/88, while long dated bond yields rose some eight basis taking the November 2006 bond back up 8.0 percent.
The Treasurer announced an underlying budget deficit of A$5.65 billion and a headline budget surplus of A$474 million for 1996/97 after budget savings of A$3.9 billion.
Median forecasts had centred on an underlying deficit of A$4.9 billion and a headline surplus of A$1.0 billion.
The local dollar also lost its gloss after to advancing to a three-week high of US$0.7933 at the start of the day amid repeated comments by the Australian government that the budget would pave the way for a further reduction in interest rates.
"If we can get our budget, intact, through the Senate, if we can get that low inflation locked in, then I think we can set up the chances for an easing in monetary policy," Costello said.
"The next hurdle is going to be the passage of the budget through the Senate," said Bruce Freeland, chief economist at Commonwealth Bank of Australia. "Difficulties in passing the budget have previously led to downward pressure on the Australian dollar and higher bond yields."
However, he added that recent statements by the minor parties in the Senate would seem to reduce the probability of the budget being blocked.
"Net, it is probably mildly bearish for the markets because it was such a favourable economic outlook rather than any failure on the fiscal tightening that Costello had been building us up for," said Stephen Koukoulas, senior economist at Citibank Australia.
Second quarter GDP was also released at the time of the budget, rising 0.1 percent in the quarter for an annual growth rate of 4.5 percent.
The Israeli shekel gained mildly against the dollar and the basket of foreign currencies in dull trading, dealers said.
"Nothing happens in the market. Activity is extremely low and the shekel was traded in a tight range," said a dealer at Bank Hapoalim.
The shekel can fluctuate in a trading band of 7.0 percent above or below a slope designed to devalue the Israeli currency at six percent a year against the basket of key currencies.
If the shekel-basket exchange rate reaches the lower trading band the market believes the central bank would intervene by buying foreign currency.
The representative rate for the dollar was 3.1480 against 3.1500 on Monday. The basket, composed of the dollar, mark, pound sterling, French franc and yen, closed at 3.5388 shekels against 3.5417 on Monday.
On the crosses the shekel traded against the yen at 2.9164 shekels per 100 yen against 2.9188 on Monday and against the mark at 2.1128 shekels per mark against 2.1152 on Monday.
In late afternoon the dollar was trading at 3.1490 shekels.
- Dan Gerstenfeld, Tel Aviv newsroom, 972-3-537-2211.
Consolidated Mining Corp Ltd said on Tuesday it had acquired Witwatersrand Royalties (Pty) Ltd via the issue of 171.8 million new ordinary shares and 131.3 million preference shares in a deal worth 93.78 million rand.
Witwatersrand Royalties' assets comprise listed shares in Randgold & Exploration Co Ltd and shares and options in Durban Roodepoort Deep Ltd and West Witswatersrand Gold Holdings Ltd.
CMC added that further talks regarding asset disposals were underway which could affect the share price.
The Bond Buyer said its municipal bond index rose 1/32 at 116-21/32 yielding 5.86 pct, at the closing (1500 Eastern) calculation.
The index is the underlying component of the Chicago Board of Trade's municipal bond futures and options contracts.
Reflecting data on 40 bonds, the index is calculated twice daily from prices submitted by six interdealer municipal bond brokers.
The Sands Regent said Tuesday it filed a lawsuit against the Mississippi Port Authority and the Mississippi Department of Economic Development, because they refused to give Copa clearance to expand its casino operations in Gulfport, Mississippi.
The suit also comes in response to recent notifications by the authority and the development group that Copa must vacate its casino site when its lease expires in October 1999.
Sands Regent said Copa had wanted to build a hotel near the site and bring in a casino barge to replace or supplement the current casino vessel.
Copa is asking for monetary damages and declaratory relief giving them the right to build the hotel and bring in a new barge.
The Port Authority has said it needs the location to expand shipping and related commercials activitie, according to Sands Regent.
NOTE: (a) Shares for three and six months ended July 31, 1995 presented on a pro forma basis using conversion factor of 7.12 for each historical share outstanding.
European bunkers firmed on Tuesday as fuel oil barge prices rose and after Monday's late futures surge, dealers said.
A feeling that prices would soon weaken left most business slack, particularly in the Mediterranean.
Rotterdam 380 CST fuel oil was at $99/$100 fob. Fuel oil barges traded as high as $99 fob ARA. Dealers said bunker demand was a reasonable 10-15,000 tonnes. A number of buyers covered early as prices began to rise but were dormant in the afternoon, believing futures' weakness would lead bunker prices lower.
Hamburg prices rose in line with Rotterdam, but quoted levels were barely tested.
In the Mediterranean, prices firmed sharply. The many enquiries did not amount to a large volume of demand, as most buyers were only interested in small quantities to cover essential requirements. Dealers in Piraeus reported no new demand until Thursday.
Durban prices were reported firming as shortages continued to afflict the market. Dealers said supply should increase by late August.
NOTE - Create Medic Co Ltd specialises in the manufacturing of disposable medical supplies.
The U.S. trade gap narrowed dramatically in June as imports of merchandise and petroleum plunged from May levels, the Commerce Department said Tuesday.
The monthly deficit dropped 23.1 percent to $8.11 billion from a revised $10.55 billion in May -- much lower than the $9.4 billion shortfall that Wall Street economists had forecast for June.
June exports eased a slight 0.3 percent to $69.71 billion while imports dropped 3.3 percent to $77.82 billion.
Amid the big overall improvement in June trade, China emerged for the first time as the nation with which the United States has the largest bilateral shortfall.
The deficit with China climbed 8.8 percent to $3.33 billion in June, surpassing the $3.24 billion deficit with Japan that was up 3.6 percent from May.
Commerce noted that exports of American-made goods to China declined for a fourth straight month in June, which is likely to fuel trade tensions between the two countries.
Steady improvement in shrinking the deficit with Japan was the main reason that China became the leading deficit nation in June, Commerce officials said. The second-quarter deficit of $10.5 billion with Japan was the smallest quarterly deficit in five years, the department said.
Previously, the department said the overall May trade deficit was $10.88 billion but it revised that down to a $10.55 billion gap.
The United States typically runs a surplus on its trade with other countries in services like travel and tourism that partly offsets big merchandise trade deficits.
In June, the merchandise deficit fell 13.9 percent to $14.46 billion from $16.79 billion in May. Lower imports of new cars and parts, especially from Japan and Germany, helped shrink the merchandise trade gap.
The surplus on services climbed 1.6 percent to $6.34 billion from $6.25 billion in May. Analysts said beforehand that an influx of tourists bound for the Olympic Games in Atlanta would boost the services surplus.
The cost and volume of all types of petroleum products fell in June after a sharp May runup. The cost of petroleum imports declined to $5.33 billion in June from $5.93 billion while the volume fell to 291,866 barrels from 305,171 in May.
Foreign sales of civilian aircraft declined in June by $117 million to $1.54 billion. Exports of industrial supplies and materials were off $138 million to $12.32 billion.
Imports of autos and parts from all sources dropped sharply by $689 million to $10.79 billion in June. Computer imports were down $413 million to $4.24 billion and semiconductor imports decreased $291 million to $2.87 billion in June.
In bilateral trade, the deficit with Western Europe fell 7.1 percent to $761 million and the shortfall with Canada was down 2.2 percent to $2.42 billion.
In trade with Mexico, the U.S. deficit shrank 6.4 percent to $1.49 billion amid signs the Mexican economy was recovering from a deep recession and grew solidly in the second quarter this year.
The deficit with oil-producing OPEC countries dropped 26.9 percent in June to $1.40 billion from $1.91 billion in May.
Tracor Inc said on Monday that its Vitro Corp subsidiary has been awarded a special designation by the Software Engineering Institute.
Vitro Corp was given a Level 3 designation out of five levels. The company said only 10 percent of software companies have implemented a standard software process to gain the Level 3 recognition.
The designation was offered after a six-member team, headed by the Software Productivity Consortium, reviewed Vitro's procedures and project documents, and interviewed employees.
NOTE: Full name of company is First Federal Savings Bank of Brunswick, Georgia.
The presidential press service, denying new rumours that President Boris Yeltsin was ill, said on Tuesday that the Kremlin leader had started a two-day break in the picturesque lakeland of northwestern Russia.
A spokesman said Yeltsin would size up prospects for a longer vacation in Valdai, which is some 350 km (220 miles) northwest of Moscow.
Yeltsin, 65, has made only one brief public appearance since late June, at his inauguration ceremony on August 9, where he read the oath from an autocue in a flat, emotionless voice.
Rumours have circulated in Russia and in the West that he is ill, but the presidential press office has denied them all, saying Yeltsin has been working every day.
Yeltsin's press secretary Sergei Yastrzhembsky said on Tuesday that the president had flown by helicopter to a residence in Valdai, a lakeland region northwest of Moscow.
The flight took two hours and 20 minutes, testifying to Yeltsin's solid health, Yastrzhembsky said on NTV commercial television. He said there was no special medical equipment in the building where Yeltsin was staying.
Itar-Tass news agency earlier quoted him as saying that a statement on Yeltsin's trip had been prompted by "usual guesses and suppositions about the president's whereabouts".
He dismissed as "complete rubbish" a report by Ekho Moskvy radio that Yeltsin, who suffered two heart attacks last year, had been in a specialist cardiological centre since August 15.
Ekho Moskvy quoted informed sources as saying that doctors at the centre, named after heart specialist Yevgeny Chazov, had diagnosed the president's condition as of average seriousness.
"In the coming hours the question of carrying out a surgical operation may be decided," the radio said.
But it also quoted the acting head doctor at the centre as saying Yeltsin was not there. "You can come and see for yourself," the doctor said.
Yastrzhembsky on Monday denied a report by the U.S. magazine Time which said Yeltsin had suffered new heart problems in the second half of June.
Time said that, according to an official Kremlin medical advisory it had obtained, the president needed round-the-clock monitoring and the Kremlin was considering transferring him to a Swiss clinic for a bypass operation.
"This information is part of a series of rumours and conjectures concerning the state of the president's health," Yastrzhembsky told a news briefing.
In a move likely to trigger more speculation about Yeltsin's health, Russia's Security Council, which groups top officials and is managed by newly appointed Alexander Lebed, issued a statement doubting the authenticity of recent presidential orders on rebel Chechnya.
"The contents of the documents give solid grounds to doubt that the president of Russia took a direct part in finalising the text of the order," said the statement.
Yeltsin on Sunday ordered Lebed, whom he had put in charge of handling the 20-month conflict in Chechnya, to restore Russian control over the capital Grozny from separatists who seized large parts of it on August 6.
But the statement said Yeltsin's orders were issued with a facsimile of the president's signature rather than signed by the president in person. It has also said Lebed was unaware of the preparation of the orders -- which violated normal procedure.
The Kansas City Board of Trade reported stocks of hard red winter wheat in deliverable position in exchange approved warehouses as of Aug 16, in 000 bushels. Note: Deliverable and non-deliverable grades exclude CCC stocks.
-- Oppenheimer downgraded SunAmerica Inc to outperform from buy, an Oppenheimer source said.
-- The analyst was not available for comment.
Standard Chartered Bank, the oldest but least active foreign bank in Manila, has embarked on an expansion programme to ensure it is not left behind as competition in the Philippine banking sector intensifies.
"We moved the Philippines in terms of (the bank's global) priority from kind of the bottom up to almost the top," the bank's Philippine chief executive, Eirvin Knox, said in an interview on Tuesday.
While London-based Standard Chartered was reducing staff levels globally, its Manila unit aimed to double its current 220 employees in the next two years, Knox said.
It has increased its capital to 1.5 billion pesos, five times the government-mandated minimum. It is expanding treasury operations and installing a new dealing room, and plans to introduce new products including a credit card which should be available early next year.
"The next two or three years are critical to establish what you are going to be able to achieve long-term," Knox said.
The Philippines' economic revival in the past four years is largely responsible for the renewed sense of purpose in a bank which first set up here in 1872 and numbered national hero Jose Rizal, executed by Spanish colonists in 1896, among its early customers.
Knox is bullish about the Philippines over the next few years, arguing that while it cannot compete as a low- cost manufacturing centre with other regional countries, its strength as a source of semi-skilled or skilled workers is unparalleled.
But the pace of the current expansion, especially in the banking sector, could cause problems, Knox said.
"I think the system is getting to the point where it shouldn't be taking on a lot of new players. This is still a relatively small banking market when compared to other countries in the region," he said.
The Bankers Association of the Philippines has also expressed concern that the sector is becoming too crowded, especially since the government introduced a liberalised banking law last year opening the sector to much greater foreign participation.
Knox saw no signs of imminent bank failures, but said there was always a danger in an intensely competitive market that smaller banks may be tempted to take on risks they are not capable of managing.
"We've seen in other systems...where rapid deregulation has caused huge problems in the banking sector and in fact in some instances has had a pretty severe impact in the whole economy," Knox said, citing Australia, Britain and the United States as examples.
He suggested that one measure the government could take to prevent problems arising was a greater degree of scrutiny of people applying for new licences.
Knox said that apart from personal services such as mortgages and consumer investment banking, Standard Chartered wanted to become a leader in the peso-dollar foreign exchange market, which he saw expanding steadily rather than explosively.
It would also be active when derivative instruments and a domestic bond market began to develop, he said, predicting that both would come about within the next two years.
Knox said banks were also lobbying the government for reforms to an antiquated tax system which inhibited bond trading and to other legislation which forced banks to place up to 25 percent of their loan portfolios in the agribusiness sector.
These are some of the leading stories in the Saudi Arabian press on Tuesday. Reuters has not verified these stories and does not vouch for their accuracy.
- King Fahd orders promotion of eight military officers to the rank of major general from brigadier.
- Saudi Basic Industries Corp operates 19 plants producing 22 million tonnes annually; 75 percent of production exported to international markets.
- King Fahd highlights agricultural growth, says will remain an indivisible part of Saudi security.
- Defence Minister Prince Sultan to visit Yemen on August 28, will preside over Saudi-Yemeni joint commission in Sanaa.
- Private Saudi companies which show a lack of commitment to employ Saudi nationals will be denied government loans.
- China signs $110 million agreement with Saudi's National Factory for Air Conditioning to import air conditioners.
Merck and Co said Tuesday it sold its stake in Ostex International Inc or 736,844 common shares.
In a filing with the Securities and Exchange Commission, Merck said it sold the shares on August 19 for $7.75 per share. The filing did say what percent of the outstanding Merck held.
NOTE - S.T. Chemical Co Ltd is a maker of mothballs, aromatics and resin gloves.
A group led by FMR Corp said in a Securities and Exchange Commission filing Tuesday it holds a 10.26 percent stake in Alliance Gaming Corp or 3,271,086 common shares.
The group disclosed its latest position on Alliance in a 13G filing. FMR Corp is the parent of the investment adviser to Fidelity Funds.
Filings under 13G are usually made by institutions and large investors with "passive" investment objectives in a company. Unlike 13D filings, those reports do not list the latest transactions.
Yields could be slightly higher than secondary market levels at the Treasury's sale on Tuesday of up to 20 billion escudos of five-year bonds, analysts and traders said.
As a result, the Treasury may opt not to place all the paper, they added.
"The yields bid will be certainly higher than eight percent and could reach 8.07 percent," said one trader.
He said the majority of the bids would probably be around 8.04 percent.
At the last sale of March 2001 bonds on July 25, the average yield was 8.0161 percent. The bonds closed at 8.0 percent on the secondary market on Monday.
Results of Tuesday's auction are due at around 1000 GMT.
Traders said the banks would be adopting a cautious line because of uncertainty over what the Federal Reserve might decide at its Open Market Committee meeting on Tuesday.
Any rate rise would be potentially damaging for peripheral bond markets such as Portugal, traders said.
They said that final investors were still out of the market and banks were seeking a premium to buy at the sale.
Glitches in Georgia's sales tax distribution to local government should not immediately affect credit ratings because the revenues are not pledged to bonds, the chairman of a finance officers' group said.
"I don't think it's anything to do with the creditworthiness of the communities at this time. A continued problem in that area, I think, would be of concern to all of us," said Clarke County Manager Al Crace, who chairs a committee set up by the Association of County Commissioners of Georgia and the Georgia Municipal Association to work out a solution with revenue officials.
State Auditor Claude Vickers reported in June that the Revenue Department had guessed how much to pay local governments in sales tax revenues over a 14-month period ending in May, resulting in over- and underpayments.
Revenue Commissioner Marcus Collins, who will retire Sept 1, said a glitch in an outdated computer system prevented the department from properly calculating the distributions.
In addition to the four percent statewide sales tax, the revenue department collects and distributes the fifth cent local-option tax that 153 of Georgia's 159 counties use to fund general operations. It also collects the sixth cent special purpose tax that as many as 80 local governments use at any given time to fund capital improvements.
"These are not state funds. They're an administrator handling our money," Crace said. "We have no confidence that there's been a fair division among those taxes. We're receiving monthly checks, which we appreciate. But we can't relate that to any time period or any clear-cut process."
Crace said on some rare occasions the local government share of the money is pledged to pay off tax anticipation notes with maturities under five years. But generally the capital improvement money is not leveraged, he said.
"Most of the time they can't design it, build it and spend it faster than it comes in," Crace said.
His group urged lawmakers to require an annual outside audit of the state Revenue Department, set up a permanent oversight board, improve professional training of revenue department staff and require the department to return tax revenues to local governments within a specified period.
Crace's group will offer the recommendations in a package of draft legislation this fall and will ask the General Assembly to adopt them when it meets in January.
The group volunteered to work with a task force being assembled by Gov Zell Miller to solve the problem and to help set up computer programs to track the revenues better. Most local government officers use equipment and programs far more sophisticated than the ancient program used by the revenue department, Crace said.
"We're in for the long haul. This problem could occur again and again if they dont' fix that system," Crace said.
Cobb County already sued to collect alleged underpayments from the revenue department, but Crace said his group hoped to avoid lawsuits and find "a friendly solution."
"Litigation will only deal with legal instruction to resolve past problems. It will not prevent the further risk," he said.
Queensland-based nickel producer QNI Ltd said on Tuesday it was cautious about metal price trends in the coming year with both nickel and cobalt prices still down on their levels of a year ago.
"We are cautious about metal prices. It will be interesting to see if there is the traditional pick up in European markets in September," QNI managing director Wyn Davies told a news conference following the release of annual results.
Davies declined to forecast a profit trend for the current year's first half, pointing to a 35 percent downward price movement in cobalt and nearly 25 percent in nickel over the last 12 months.
But he said the world stainless steel industry was "not in dire straits" with no shortages of cobalt and plenty of demand.
QNI's new A$50 million upgrade of its Port of Townsville ore unloading facility would be fully operational next month, enabling a potential doubling of shipments, Davies said.
Meanwhile, QNI's search for new orebodies would continue with its first shipment of ore from the Philippines due in the next 10 days, he said.
"We are tentatively looking for other ore feeds in the South West Pacific," Davies said.
Baugh, currently vice president and general manager of Wilson's Racquet Sports, will have global responsibility for Wilson's marketing strategies, branding and product development, Amer said.
Baugh will also continue to head the Racquet Sports Division and he will also be responsible for the Golf Division following the resignation of Kim Ignatius as vice president and general manager of Wilson Golf.
Amer said Baugh will report to Roger Talermo, chairman and CEO of Wilson and president and CEO of Amer.
The statement gave no information about the financial targets of the restructuring of Wilson. Announcing the restructuring on August 5, Amer said the chief aim was to improve the golf division's profitability.
Dutch tank storage and shipping group Pakhoed NV said on Tuesday some 54.3 million guilder first half restructuring costs sliced net profit in the period to 4.6 million guilders against the previous 61.4 million.
The bulk of the costs, 44.3 million guilders, was the result of restructuring tank storage operations in Rotterdam. The restructuring includes an early retirement scheme, used by 62 employees, and also anticipated provisions and write-off of assets to be decommissioned.
Pakhoed also spent 10 million guilders on an early retirement scheme for 50 employees at the Furness company Seaport Terminals.
Pakhoed is to sell Furness to industrial investment holding Hollandia Industriele Maatschappij NV (HIM). Pakhoed has agreed to bear the above-mentioned restructuring costs of Seaport Terminals and to contribute towards operating results an amount not exceeding 10 million guilders.
"Apart from the costs in relation to the final transfer of Furness we don't expect further extraordinary charges in the second half-year of 1995," Pakhoed said.
British Airways shares dropped on Tuesday after a newspaper report said the UK was not prepared to sign an "open skies" agreement with the United States similar to the one struck between Germany and the U.S. earlier this year.
The share price slipped nine pence to 529p by 0941 GMT in relatively light volume of 1.76 million shares traded.
The Financial Times said the UK felt the deal with Germany was biased towards the U.S., which is due to resume talks with Britain in Washington next week on a new aviation agreement.
The U.S. government has made any approval of a proposed alliance between British Airways and American Airlines conditional on getting on getting open skies with Britain.
But some analysts said the fall may have been overdone.
"I don't think it's the final position at all," said one.
He noted that British Airways was unlikely in eny event to go ahead with the proposed merger with American if it did not make commercial sense.
Daiwa Institute of Research Ltd has assigned Oiles Corp a "A" rating, Daiwa Securities brokers said on Wednesday.
In its three-grade rating system, the research institute assigns an "A" rating to issues whose values it sees outperforming the Tokyo Stock Exchange first-section TOPIX index by more than 10 percentage points over the next six months.
Crown Pacific Partners L.P. said it agreed to buy a Marysville, Wash., sawmill from Garka Mill Co Inc for about $2.7 million.
The acquisition is expected to close September 16.
Once a planned capital improvement program is complete, the facility will employ about 50 people, including personnel currently employed.
Crown Pacific will supply the mill with logs from its 185,000 acres of timberland located in the Skagit Valley and the Olympic Peninsula of Washington state.
All four people in a group residence for the disabled died in an overnight fire in the Philadelphia suburb of Exton, police said Tuesday.
The dead included a female counsellor in her 20s and three elderly male residents, two of whom needed wheelchairs. They were found in the one-story house after firemen extinguished the fierce flames. A neighbour alerted by his barking dog sounded the alarm at 2:20 a.m.
"The fire was so heavy when we arrived we couldn't make entry," Fire Chief William Miller said.
West Whiteland Township police withheld the identity of the dead while relatives were being notified.
-- Merrill Lynch said it cut its rating on Vesta Insurance Group Inc to near-term neutral from accumulate and kept its long-term rating at buy.
-- Further details were not immediately available.
Ramsay Health Care Inc said on Tuesday it named Bert Cibran president and chief operating officer.
He is succeeding Reynold Jennings who will continue as executive vice president and president of the company's behavioral hospital division. Jennings resigned as a director of the company, effective August 12, the company said.
Most recently, Cibran was president and chief operating officer for the Florida operations of Physician Corp of America.
Ramsay, a behavioral health services company, also said it named Carol Lang vice president and chief financial officer. She is replacing Daniel Sims, who is moving to the Florida branch of the company, Ramsay said.
Lang currently is president of HealthLink Enterprises Inc, a financial advisory and consulting company focused on the healthcare industry.
U.S. Treasury balances at Federal Reserve based on Treasury Department's latest budget statement.
The German government will top up the issue of five percent, Series 119, five-year government bonds, or Bobls, in an auction on Wednesday and has invited banks to place bids by 0900 GMT on Wednesday, the Bundesbank as issuing agent said on Tuesday.
Tap issuance of the Series 119 to non-banks will cease at 1000 GMT Tuesday, the Bundesbank said. The government will start tap issuance of a new Bobl series, Series 120, to non-banks Tuesday.
The auction tranche of the Series 119 will be bourse-listed on Monday, August 26. Pay date is Friday, August 23.
The Bobl Series 119 last yielded 5.01 percent. The new Series 120 has an issue price of 99.80 and yields 5.50 percent, the Bundesbank said.
The high sulphur fuel oil price rally was expected to continue, causing market jitters and talks that prices have become too high too fast, traders said on Tuesday.
Prices for 180-cst prices have surged over $10 a tonne within one week, hitting a three-month high of $104 on Monday, an increase from $92.50 registered on August 13.
Cargoes of 180 cst were bid/asked between $103/$105 a tonne fob Singapore on Monday. The same Mideast trader who purchased a 180 cst cargo at $104 on Monday said he would still be keen to buy but is unsure where he would place his bid.
A Dutch trader said he would bid at $102 for 180 cst cargoes loading in early September. Both buyers said supplies in Singapore appear to be tight. One buyer said fewer Mideast exports, due to higher domestic summer demand, have caused prices to firm.
Others said reduced refinery runs in Singapore registering 1.156 million barrels per day (bpd) down from its normal 1.230 million bpd have exacerbated the tight supply situation.
Meanwhile, a climb of $4 a tonne in Mediterranean prices on Monday have crushed talks that the arbitrage from the west has opened.
IBCA also confirmed its rating of A1 plus for short-term foreign currency issues and assigned a long-term local currency rating of AAA to sovereign debt.
But IBCA said the path would not be easy.
"A relatively small adverse shift in the macroeconomic environment will be sufficient to blow the government's public debt to gdp projections off course," it said. "IBCA is projecting that the public debt to GDP ratio will rise this year, although it should fall in the more favourable macroeconomic environment expected in 1997.
"Furthermore, despite the mini-budget the inclusion of payments under the Constitutional Court rulings of 1994 means that additional payments will have to be made," IBCA said.
IBCA said it noted Italy's considerable strengths as a sovereign credit -- "illustrated by the continued dynamism of the private sector, the current account surplus and the high savings ratio."
Boris Yeltsin's new security chief cast doubts on the authenticity of presidential orders on the Chechen crisis on Tuesday, fuelling speculation on who was running Russia as the Kremlin denied the president was sick.
Yeltsin, 65, has not been seen in public since he put in a somewhat wooden appearance during his inauguration for his second term on August 9. His absence has led to media reports in Russia and in the West that he had been taken seriously ill.
His spokesman on Tuesday denied a new report he was being treated for a serious heart condition and said he had left for a short holiday in the Valdai lakeland northwest of Moscow.
"Boris Nikolayevich has gone to Valdai for two days," spokesman Sergei Yastrzhembsky told NTV commercial television.
"It takes two hours and 20 minutes by helicopter and the very fact that the president has spent that much time in a helicopter is the best evidence to rebut rumours that have been circulating about his health recently."
But the Security Council, whose tough-talking secretary Alexander Lebed was appointed by Yeltsin two months ago, issued a statement saying his latest order on Chechnya bore a facsimile signature and seemed to have been prepared without him.
"The contents of the documents give solid grounds to doubt that the president of Russia took a direct part in finalising the text of the order," the Security Council statement said.
It said an order instructing Lebed to restore Russian control of Grozny was the cue for the army to threaten a massive bombardment of the Chechen capital from Thursday morning and would wreck Lebed's peacemaking efforts.
Yeltsin's press office was later quoted by Itar-Tass news agency as insisting the order was fully in line with Yeltsin's wishes and saying he wanted the council to drop the matter.
Russian political analysts played down the bickering in the Kremlin, however, saying Yeltsin still appeared to be in overall command and simply to be letting his subordinates find the best way to limit the political damage from the Chechen debacle.
Yeltsin has admitted that sending troops to Chechnya to crush its independence bid was "maybe one of our mistakes".
Hopes of peace rose when Yeltsin named Lebed his representative in the region last week. Lebed has visited the region twice and helped broker a shaky truce. Tass said he would go there again on Wednesday.
Russian commander General Konstantin Pulikovsky, who had signed a ceasefire order on Saturday, accused the guerrillas of using the truce to dig in. "I see force as the only way out of the situation in Grozny," he told Interfax news agency.
Hundreds of people have been killed in Chechnya in the last two weeks, since rebel fighters swept into the capital Grozny, capturing key buildings and surrounding Russian soldiers at their checkpoints and in the central government compound.
Terrified civilians flooded out of Grozny on Tuesday, many of them with little more than the clothes they wore. Pulikovsky gave them 48 hours until Thursday to get out, although finding a way through ruins and sporadic fighting was not easy.
Refugees said Russian planes had started bombing the town, much of it already in ruins after attacks at the start of Russia's campaign to crush Chechnya's independence bid.
"The whole city is on its way out," said Nina Madayeva, who said 12 planes had bombed Grozny's southwestern Chernorechye district overnight. "We've been in a basement for 14 or 15 days and couldn't stand it any more."
Kremlin spokesman Yastrzhembsky said Yeltsin would consider a longer holiday in Valdai but dismissed as "complete rubbish" a report by Ekho Moskvy radio that the president had been in a specialist cardiological centre since August 15.
Journalists at Ekho Moskvy told Reuters they stuck by their story, which said Yeltsin, who suffered two heart attacks last year, had been diagnosed with moderately serious heart trouble.
He said on Tuesday that the president and Prime Minister Viktor Chernomyrdin, who would deputise for Yeltsin if he were incapable of working, were continuing to work on formation of the new government, most of which was announced last week.
Rebel chief-of-staff Aslan Maskhadov appealed to Lebed to rein in the army. He should "use all of his influence to stop the approaching madness", Interfax quoted Maskhadov as saying.
Tokyo stocks closed slightly higher on Tuesday, after drifting in tight ranges in mostly directionless trade for most of the day, brokers said.
Investors remained on the sidelines, and brokers expected the sluggish trend to continue for a while.
The key 225-share Nikkei average ended up 20.60 points or 0.10 percent at 21,127.01. Its September futures gained 10 points to 21,180 by the end of the session.
As for individual shares, Sony Music Entertainment (Japan) Inc was hit by the company's announcement on Monday of a sharp downward revision of its earnings forecast, traders said.
The share price shed 500 yen to end at 4,050, after having been quoted at ask-only for most of the session.
-- Lehman Brothers said it started coverage of Centocor Inc with an outperform rating and a 12-month $36 price target.
-- Shares were up 1/2 at 32-5/8.
-- Further details were not available.
World rally champion Colin McRae of Britain has been fined $250,000 -- $175,000 of it suspended -- after running into spectators in a service area during last month's Argentine rally.
Mosley, speaking after a meeting of FIA's world council on Tuesday, said the offences, exceeding the new 50 kph limit covering rally service areas and failing to follow the correct route to a time control, would normally merit a suspension of one or two races.
As a result of McRae's actions, five fans were slightly injured.
In deciding against suspending the Scot, Mosley said they had taken into account difficult circumstances he faced.
McRae, 28, said: "I am obviously relieved that this unfortunate incident has now been resolved."
Tuesday. The three-month rate was unchanged at 3.58 percent.
INLAND CASINO CORP.
CSCE coffee prices ended higher Tuesday after a late-session bout of fund buying drove the market through key resistance levels, trading sources said.
After a very sluggish start to the day, the market perked up ahead of the close when light speculative buying pushed most-active December through nearby resistance at 114.50. Buy stops were activated at that level, attracting steady bidding on the part of commodity funds.
December settled at 115.05 cents per lb Tuesday, up 1.75 on the day and just above the widely-watched 115-mark. Dealers said the break through resistance could inspire some additional chart-driven buying at Wednesday's open.
Traders for the most part shrugged off the latest round of certified stocks data, released after the close of business on Monday. The report, which revealed a 6,259-bag drawdown in Exchange-deliverable coffee, came in largely as expected, traders said.
He added that as long as September's open interest continued to decline in orderly fashion, a last-minute panic rally on September was less likely.
More important, they said, was the report of 19,000 bags of coffee reported as pending Exchange certification.
While the large pending tally had also been talked about ahead of time, dealers said it initially pressured the nearby switch. But the September-December spread widened back out to just above unchanged, however, aided by views that at least some of the 19,000 bags would not meet with Exchange approval.
Several traders also pointed out that even if the 19,000 bags were graded, September's 4,133 lots of open interest still dwarfed the 230 lots (34,516 bags) contained in the overall certified cache.
Indonesia's central bank, Bank Indonesia, was temporarily neutral on Tuesday morning in its money policy, money traders said.
Some 222 billion rupiah of central bank certificates (SBIs) due today exceeded slightly some 136 billion rupiah of maturing short-term securities (SBPUs) and some 20 billion rupiah of SBIs to be settled today -- Jakarta newsroom +6221 384-6364.
Striking miners at the RTZ-CRA Blair Athol coal mine in central Queensland were meeting on Tuesday to hear a recommendation that they return to work, a Blair Athol coal spokesman said.
"As a result of talks, a meeting has been called by union officials to put a proposal to miners that recommends a return to work," general manager, operations at Blair Athol Coal, Rod Bates told Reuters.
Union officials were not available for comment.
"I'm very hopeful they (the coal miners) will return to work tomorrow," Bates said. The workers have been on strike for 5-1/2 weeks over the issue of training on the drill and other matters.
The strike is despite a return-to-work order from the Australian Industrial Relations Commission (AIRC).
The AIRC has convened a meeting of Construction, Forestry, Mining and Energy Union (CFMEU) members at Blair Athol for Wednesday to hear admissions on a return to work, Bates said.
Blair Athol produces 10 million tonnes annually with the bulk of production shipped to Japanese customers.
Year		     Amount    Coupon     Yield     Price  Conc.
Hyundai Precision and Industries Co Ltd, a unit of South Korea's Hyundai Group, said on Tuesday it won a $18 million order from Japan's Mitsubish Heavy Industries Ltd to make 28 overhead cranes.
Hyundai said in a statement it is scheduled to deliver the cranes to Mitsubish's steel mill in Thailand by August 1997.
South Korea's rice output is expected to be higher than the original forecast of 4.85 million tonnes for this year against 4.75 million last year due to good weather and crop conditions, officials at the Agriculture and Fisheries said on Tuesday.
"Our initial target was 4.85 million tonnes this year. But we expect this year's rice output to be better than expected because of the favorable weather and crop conditions, despite less cultivation land," a ministry official said.
A recent survey by the ministry indicated the amount of grain-producing land under cultivation decreased about 0.6 percent to 1,050,000 hectares this year against 1,055,868 hectares in the previous year, he said.
South Korea's demand for rice is also expected to fall 10 percent to five million tonnes this year, compared to the previous year's 5.5 million tonnes, he said.
CALL FEATURES: 09/01/2001 at 100.00.
The award is expected Wednesday, August 21, 1996.
Delivery is expected on September 25, 1996.
BAK, one of Switzerland's leading economic research institutes, said it had revised downward its 1996 growth forecast for Switzerland due to continued weak consumption, the half-hearted depreciation of the Swiss franc and the lack of stimulus from key trading partners.
BAK said in a statement that it had revised downward its forecast for Switzerland's 1996 Gross Domestic Product (GDP) to a contraction of 0.4 percent from a previous forecast of a 0.9 percent expansion.
"All in all we assume that Switzerland must face another year of recession," BAK said.
BAK said it had revised down its forecast for private consumption this year by 0.3 percentage points to 0.4 percent from its previous forecast from March.
But BAK said it expects the 1997 GDP to grow 1.5 percent as inflation, low interest rates and a weakening Swiss franc point to economic recovery. Foreign trade should also help growth.
A 90-cent increase in the U.S. minimum wage will have little short-term impact on most fast food restaurants, since the competition for workers is keeping pay rates above the federally mandated standard.
"The (real) 'minimum wage' is what the closest McDonald's pays or it could be the local Pizza Hut," George Goulson, senior vice president of A&W Restaurants Inc, said.
Earlier Tuesday, President Clinton signed into law the first rise in the minimum wage in five years, boosting the wage to $5.15 an hour from $4.25.
"Our average crew wage is about $5.20 (an hour) so short-term there is not going to be any impact," said Denny Lynch, spokesman for Wendy's International Inc, which operates 4,307 restaurants in the United States.
"If you raise someone who started in the last two months (to the new minimum wage level), you also have to raise everybody else," said Terry Freund, chief financial officer of American Restaurant Partners.
Beyond the minimum wage requirements, competition for workers, from cooks to delivery drivers, has forced many fast-food chains to pay up to hire good help, particularly in metropolitan markets. That competition is being driven by an increase in restaurant openings.
Fast-food industry executives said there has been competition for workers since the late 1980s, although the increase in restaurant openings is making the search for employees more intense.
Another problem for quick-service restaurants is that wage competition from other employers often lures experienced workers away. A fast-food worker, for example, may be able to bring home more pay as a waiter or waitress at a casual dining establishment where they could receive $50 or $60 a night in tips, executives said.
"For QSRs (quick service restaurants)...it's even tougher to keep the kids," Roger Lipton, president of Lipton Financial Services, said.
Australian Treasurer Peter Costello said on Tuesday that he hoped the desertion of an opposition senator improved the chances of the budget passing through the upper house of parliament.
"I hope it improves it," Costello said when asked what implications the split had for the budget's chances in the Senate.
With Liberal-National government support, he was later voted deputy president of the Senate.
The Liberal-Nationals are two votes short of a majority in the Senate.
If Colston backs the government, which announced a deficit-slashing budget on Tuesday, then it might gain passage of contentious bills with just the support of the other Independent or, less probably, one of the two Greens senators.
August and October CME hog futures and August pork belly futures all finished down their respective daily trading limits on pressure from increased hog runs and slaughter and lower cash pork and hog prices that touched off sell stops, traders said.
August and October hogs ended down the 1.500 cent per lb limit with August at 60.025 cents and October at 53.550. Other hog contracts closed mostly down 1.400 to 0.250 cent.
Declining cash prices on larger hog runs pressured hog futures from the start and sell stops were touched off around 54.000 cents in October and December.
"The fact that we are seeing a few more hogs show up has people worried about the supply side but more improtant than this, gives the packers a little more freedom to improve their margins," said Doug Harper, Brock Associates Inc senior livestock analyst.
Traders cited indications for another $0.50 to $1.00 per cwt loss in cash hogs Wednesday which added to weakness and knocked hog futures into technical sell stops. Futures went limit down shortly after penetrating moving averages and falling below 54.000 in October and December, traders said.
August pork bellies settled down the limit at 91.375 cents per lb and other months ended 1.250 to 0.400 lower.
Bellies also declined on concern over the rate of hog slaughter, traders said.
"Hog slaughter has continued to weigh on bellies," said John Fisher, partner in Skylane Trading and belly trader.
USDA estimated Tuesday's hog slaughter at 348,000 head, above 343,000 a week ago and 347,000 a year ago. The figure brings the week-to-date total to 668,000 head, up from 650,000 in the comparable period last week but below 673,000 last year.
After the close, the CME reported a net out-movement of 1.559 million lbs of frozen bellies from warehouses outside Chicago last week. The figure was under analysts' estimates of 2.0 million to 2.5 million lbs out.
In hog options, ADM Investor Services was again bidding for December 54 and 56 straddles.
There was buying of calls and puts in October, December, and February at lower futures prices, pit sources added.
- WWF Switzerland presented a report on the quality of the soil in Switzerland. The study said 12,000 square kilometers, about 30 percent of the total Swiss ground, was negatively affected by human civilisation.
- Average annual working hours in Switzerland per employee were 1,633 hours in 1993. Compared with other OECD countries, Switzerland has the fourth lowest working hours, only beaten by Germany, Norway, and Sweden.
- Swiss technology group Gurit-Heberlein said it raised turnover by nine percent to 304.6 million Swiss francs in the 1996 first half. Cash-flow rose 18 percent 27.8 million francs.
- A study of the Federal Institute of Technology said that some 42,000 jobs will be directly or indirectly depending on gene technology in Switzerland by the year 2005.
- Swiss watch manufacturer SMH -- Swatch, Omega etc -- reported a seven percent rise in turnover in the 1996 first half.
Chairman N. Hayek said in an interview that he expected an 18 percent increase in net profit for 1996.
- Swiss group Biber sold British paper group John Dickinson to the British group David S. Smith.
The Cazenove Indian GDR Index rose 2.40 points, 3.25 percent, to 76.24 points after the Bombay Stock Exchange 30 share index rose 33.89 points to a provisional 3,315.38.
The premium for GDRs over stocks on the local market was 10.56 percent after yesterday's 7.55 percent.
The Cazenove index is a capitalisation weighted basket of Indian global depositary receipts and measures the change from midday on the previous trading day to midday today.
Chancellor Franz Vranitzky has firmly denied Austria will decide on possible NATO membership next year, contradicting controversial comments by his defence minister a month ago.
"(In 1997) we will certainly not make a decision on NATO membership," the Social Democrat leader said in an interview published in Tuesday's edition of the daily Der Standard.
Vranitzky said NATO membership would not necessarily grant the neutral republic greater security. The government should instead work for closer international cooperation through the Atlantic alliance's Partnership for Peace programme, he said.
Defence Minister Werner Fasslabend, whose conservative People's Party rules as junior coalition partner with the Social Democrats, said on July 22 the debate over NATO membership should be completed by the middle of 1997.
The remarks by Fasslabend, a staunch supporter of joining the military alliance, triggered a new round of a NATO debate which surfaced as an issue among Austria's political parties since the country joined the European Union in 1995.
The political right has generally argued for a swift decision, while the pro-neutrality left insists the issue must be decided by a national referendum.
A recent poll showed only 23 percent of Austrians support joining NATO.
Two weeks ago, conservative Foreign Minister Wolfgang Schuessel appeared to back off from Fasslabend's disputed comments for the first time, saying Austria was not negotiating a deal with NATO or planning to scrap its long-held neutrality.
Austria, perched on the traditional border between the feuding eastern and western blocs, has been neutral since 1955, when it inaugurated its post-World War Two constitution.
The Soviet Union, which occupied Austria after the war with its allies Britain, France and United States, demanded Austria enshrine neutrality as a central pillar of its national charter before it agreed to withdraw its troops.
Teenage drug abuse rose 78 percent from 1992 to 1995, according to a report to be released later Tuesday by the Department of Health and Human Services.
The report, cited in Tuesday's editions of USA Today, said drug use levels among adults during that time did not change.
But among teens 12 to 17 years old, drug use jumped 33 percent between 1994 and 1995 alone, the report said.
It said use of LSD and other hallucinogens among teens rose 54 percent between 1994 and 1995, while use of cocaine rose 166 percent. In 1995, however, only 0.8 percent of teens used cocaine.
Marijuana use rose 37 percent from 1994 to 1995, the report said.
Another Department of Health and Human Services report cited in Tuesday's USA Today showed hospital emergency room visits since 1992 rose 96 percent for marijuana, 58 percent for heroine and 19 percent for cocaine.
WE HAVE RECEIVED THE VERBAL AWARD.
THE ACCOUNT IS CLOSED.
The award is expected Thursday, August 22, 1996.
Delivery is expected on September 12, 1996.
Merrill Lynch & Co.
Goldman, Sachs & Co.
Bangladesh has signalled it will tap world markets with a tender at the end of August for 100,000 tonnes of optional-origin soft wheat for shipment in September and October, European grain traders said on Monday.
Although there was some market confusion over whether the import would be routine business or food aid, traders said the tender appeared to be a commercial one.
Earlier this month the European Union sold 75,000 tonnes of soft wheat as food aid for delivery to Bangladesh from mid-October.
Akorn Inc said Tuesday it expects to report a per-share loss of $0.02 to $0.03 for the fiscal fourth quarter because of sales declines and several unusual charges.
The charges include payments to be made under a severance package to key employees, severance payments related to head count reductions at the company's manufacturing facilities, costs related to the acquisition of Pasadena Research Labs Inc, and a change in estimates related to the accrual for wholesaler chargebacks.
In the year-ago fourth quarter Akorn reported a profit of $0.04 per share.
Akorn said revenues for the fourth quarter, ended June, are expected to be $6.0 to $6.1 million, versus $6.8 million a year ago.
For the year, Akorn said it expects revenues to decline less than 10 percent and earnings to be $0.06 to $0.07 per share, down from $0.17 in the prior year, which includes the results of Pasadena Research Labs on a pooling-of-interests basis.
Note- Media company Aztech Systems Ltd said the extraordinary loss was incurred by a write-off of its investment in Reveal Computers Products Inc.
Plains feedlot cattle markets Tuesday were active, with brisk sales at $68.00, up $2.00 per cwt from a week ago, according to feedlot sources.
About 45,000 head traded in the Texas Panhandle/western Oklahoma areas and about 35,000 in Kansas. Final figures for the day were expected higher as paperwork gets processed.
The day started slowly, with light sales of lesser grade cattle at $67.00, but quickly accelerated as packers started buying aggressively at $68.00, the sources said.
Gains were powered by smaller showlists this week of market-ready cattle just as packers were running short on live supplies purchased two weeks ago, feedlot sources said.
Higher boxed beef prices at midday also were tied to the active packer buying, with boxes quoted up $1.00 to $1.42, with choice heavyweight cuts up $1.42 at $104.10, according to USDA. There were 178 fabricated loads sold.
Last week's declines in boxed beef prices reportedly encouraged renewed retail interest, resulting in a possible shift from pork for advertising features after the Labor Day holiday, market sources said.
Finnish engineering consulting group PI-Consulting Oy will be moved to the surveillance list on August 22 since the company is in corporate debt restructuring, the Helsinki Stock Exchange said in a statement on Tuesday.
"The purpose of the surveillance list is to draw investors' attention to a particular issue concerning the company," the bourse noted.
Trade on the list follows ordinary rules, it added.
Asian stock markets were predominantly higher on Tuesday, but moves were muted and turnover poor as investors awaited fresh factors.
Potential new leads included the U.S. Federal Open Market Committee (FOMC) meeting later on Tuesday, although markets have generally discounted any rate change.
Australian stocks ended just firmer as the unveiling of the Federal budget, which forecast an underlying budget deficit of A$5.65 billion for fiscal 1996/97, came too late to hit trading.
Tokyo stocks closed slightly higher, after drifting in tight ranges in mostly directionless trade for most of the day.
Investors remained on the sidelines, and brokers expected the sluggish trend to continue for a while.
The key 225-share Nikkei average ended up 20.60 points, or 0.10 percent, at 21,127.01. Its September futures gained 10 points to 21,180 by the end of the session.
"The biggest reason why investors could not move was there were no factors to prompt fresh buying," said Kenzo Doi, senior analyst at Kokusai Securities Co Ltd.
A rally in the utilities sector lifted Hong Kong stocks to a higher close, with the Hang Seng index closing above 11,300 points for the first time since March.
The Hang Seng index ended 99.03 points higher at 11,312.51.
"People are buying laggards. Most sectors have gained -- banks, properties, H-shares, red chips -- and now it is time for utilities which are still at a very low level," said Antony Mak, sales director at Vickers Ballas.
Brisk trading in second liners drove Singapore shares to close up. Sentiment was partly lifted by strong July trade figures.
The 30-share Straits Times Industrials Index was up 18.15 points at 2,123.81.
Taiwan share prices rebounded from an early slide to close slightly higher on news that China had issued rules governing direct shipping links with estranged Taiwan, brokers said.
The index ended up 9.93 points or 0.16 percent at 6,057.44.
The Australian share market ended just firmer and well off its highs as cautious players cashed in gains ahead of the Federal budget.
The All Ordinaries index ended up 3.2 points at 2,264.7.
Jakarta's composite index rose 2.53 points to 539.61 points on active buying in secondaries and selected heavyweights.
Thai stocks ended slightly higher after moving in negative territory for most of the session as a market support fund helped bolster the flagging bourse, brokers asid.
The SET index ended 3.93 points higher at 1,071.41 on a thin 2.4 billion baht.
The benchmark Kuala Lumpur Stock Exchange's Composite Index ended at 1,105.44, up 2.08 points, after moving in a four-point range.
Among losing markets, Manila shares languished in negative territory and closed down 1.98 points at 3,090.69.
Seoul was also lower and ended at a 33-month low in slow trading as overall depression erased early selective buying of theme-backed small-sized shares, brokers said.
The composite stock index ended 6.61 points down at a provisional 793.91, the lowest closing since November 12, 1993.
Bombay shares rebounded 33.89 points, or 1.03 percent, to 3,315.38.
In late Tokyo trade, the dollar was at 107.87/92 yen and 1.4899/04 marks, against New York's Monday close of 107.77/84 yen and 1.4867/77 marks as players awaited the FOMC meeting.
On SIMEX, October Brent futures were last traded at $20.75, down ten cents from London's settlement on Monday.
Bullion ended at US$387.10/50 an ounce in Hong Kong, slightly up on Monday's New York's close of $386.90/387.40.
Six months to June 30.
First of America (corrects from Piper Jaffray Inc) said Tuesday it won $8.740 million of Winnebago Cty, Wis., general obligation promissory notes with a true interest cost of 4.7285 percent (corrects from 4.74 percent).
Shares on the Lima stock exchange closed down Tuesday, but investors maintained their enthusaism for electric companies, brokers said.
Wednesday could see further drops, however, as brokers said they expect a technical correction in electricity stocks because investors hope to take profits on their recent buys.
Volume remained low at 35.7 million soles ($14.5 million) due to the continued absence of foreign investors, who have been discouraged from entering the market by recent investment bank reports, brokers said.
In sluggish action, there were 2,374 trades, where 17 stocks rose, 31 fell and 37 were stable.
Electricity generator Edegel rose 2.42 percent to 5.51 soles in volume of 6.6 million soles, while distributor Edelnor rose 3.89 percent to 3.47 soles in volume of 3.0 million soles.
Accounting for 26 percent of the day's volume, Luz del Sur was the most heavily traded stock as it dipped 0.01 sol to 3.77 soles.
Despite recent apathy on the exchange, brokers said prospects for the equities market were still positive in the medium- and long-term as prices are likely to gradually rise to reflect the country's steadily improving economy.
Particularly in the mining sector, prices could move up as "there are various stocks that are close to reaching their floor," said Luis Cueva of Argos brokerage.
It said outstanding debt was 2,184 trillion lira at end-June.
The end-July debt included 1,510 trillion lira in t-bills and 626 trillion lira in government bonds, which has at least one-year maturities.
Turkey's domestic debt was 1,361 trillion lira at end-1995.
The group of Finnish co-operative banks said in a statement on Tuesday it would show a 1996 profit and clear improvement on last year.
"The (co-operative banking group) will post a profit for the entire year and will show markedly improved performance on last year," the group said.
In 1995, the group had a 253 million markka net operating profit and the first half 1996 operating profit surged to 427 million markka from 42 million markka.
Turnover in kerb bond deals through the Warsaw bourse was at 1.2 million zlotys on Tuesday, down from 82.6 million zlotys on Monday.
* 1,140 variable-interest 10-year bonds maturing on July 18, 2006 traded at 100.35.
Roosevelt & Cross, Inc. said it won $3.700 million of Snyder Fire District in the Town of Amherst, N.Y., fire district bonds, 1996, with a net interest cost of 5.4978 percent.
The European Commission said it had cleared the creation of a joint venture between Germany's Siemens AG and Sommer-Allibert Industrie AG for the development, production, installation and sales of integrated car interiors.
Nat City Investments said it won $11.720 million of Riley Elementary School Building Corp., Ind., lease rental revenue first mortgage bonds, Series 1996 with a net interest cost of 5.6079 percent.
Six months to June 30, 1996.
NOTE - French insurance company Axa said in a statement consolidated first half revenues rose 24.5 percent. It said the increase primarily reflected the consolidation of Australian insurer National Mutual during the period.
On a constant currency and structural basis, consolidated revenues rose by 8.8 percent.
The company said first-half 1995 figures had been restated to take into account the favourable impact of new French accounting rules.
The elimination of catch-up on coinsurance and acceptances on group life business -- life and non life -- under the new accounting rules had resulted in double counting of the 1994 and 1995 premiums in 1995. To make the 1996 figures comparable, the 1995 figures were restated.
Doctors are too quick to prescribe growth hormones for short children, American researchers said on Tuesday.
A team at Case Western University in Ohio analysed surveys sent to 434 pediatric endocrinologists and estimated that four out of 10 children undergoing the controversial and expensive therapy did not have the conditions that warrant it.
The U.S. Food and Drug Administration has approved the therapy, which costs between $13,000 and $16,000 per year, only for the estimated 14,000 children in the country with growth hormone deficiency and chronic renal failure.
But there are no generally accepted guidelines for the therapy and it may be applied for non-medical reasons such as pressure brought by family or the physician's beliefs, Leona Cuttler, a pediatrician at the university and colleagues wrote in this week's Journal of the American Medical Association.
Hormone therapy increases the rate of growth for as many as 90 percent of children treated but its effect on adult height and its adverse effects are uncertain, they said.
In an accompanying editorial in the journal, Barry Bercu of the University of South Florida blamed overuse partly on what he termed the "cultural 'heightism' that permeates American society," adding that short people generally adapt.
"The potential psychological damage to the child with unrealistic expectations of what final height will be achieved should also be considered," he wrote. Children undergoing treatment may also come to believe they are sick.
"One must ask whether a three to five cm (one to two inch) improvement in height is an acceptable outcome of intervention; it would appear to be less expensive to provide further education, job training or professional psychological counselling," he said.
Pakistan is seeking 30,000 to 34,000 tonnes U.S. no. 2 or better yellow soybeans under PL 480, Title I, its U.S. export agent said.
Delivery is slated for October 15-30. Bids must be submitted no later than August 28 and remain valid until August 29.
British Airways Plc (BA) said on Tuesday that it had no plans for new alliances over the next few years, but would extend its global reach by franchising its popular brand name to smaller airlines.
British Airways has an alliance with Australian carrier Qantas Airways Ltd and formed an alliance with American Airlines in June, although this is subject to regulatory approvals and a legal suit by USAir Group, in which BA holds 24.6 percent.
"One of the great challenges of alliance development is the management challenge and I think it would be unwise to take on any more than we can absorb at any one time," BA chief executive Robert Ayling said at an industry luncheon in Sydney.
Reports that BA would look to an alliance with a Japanese airline, notably Japan Airlines, were quashed by Ayling in a speech to the National Aviation Press Club in Sydney.
However, Ayling said the airline's four-year experiment with franchising its brand name to smaller airlines was successful and would be an area of future growth, providing safety and customer service standards were met.
"It is a way of bringing extended services to customers and of allowing operators of smaller airlines, who would have found it very difficult to survive in this world of global networks, to be more successful," Ayling said.
In June, BA signed its first franchise agreement outside of the European Union with South Africa's largest independent carrier, Comair. Under the deal Comair's eight-jet fleet will use the British Airways name and livery.
Under the existing rules it would have been impossible to acquire or invest more than 50 percent in an airline in South Africa, said Ayling. "South Africa is a part of the world which would not be open to us if we didn't have this deal," he said.
Ayling is visiting Australia to look at the operations of BA's 25 percent stake in Qantas, the national carrier.
"We may see, although this may be some way off, fleet acquisition opportunities, which would make a significant impact on procurement of aircraft," said Ayling.
"Once these agreements are put in place and they are being effectively managed, we will be able to see some things we are not able to see at the moment," he said.
Two weeks ago, BA reported an 11.1 percent rise in first quarter profits to 150 million sterling (US$231 million) on sales of 2.103 billion sterling. It forecast another record year in the year to March 1997.
Peter Fatialofa, who after despairing of winning an All Black jersey won acclaim as captain of Western Samoa, has retired from rugby at all levels.
The burly prop confirmed on Monday that his brief appearance as a replacement for Counties in Sunday's national championship match against Canterbury was his last in any game.
"My body's starting to talk to me now big time," he said. "I can now start to hear the bells ringing. But I've got absolutely no regrets and I'm happy to be bowing out, not sad, because it's the right time to go."
After missing the All Black tour of Australia in 1988, Fatialofa took up an offer to join Western Samoa who were then trying to win a place in the 1991 World Cup.
He has now played more than 100 games for Western Samoa, including an estimated 37 tests. By 1990, he was Western Samoa's captain and he reached his peak when the side was one of the sensations of the 1991 World Cup with wins over Wales and Argentina to become a quarterfinalist.
"Playing in that World Cup when Manu Samoa became an international force was the  highlight for me," Fatialofa said.
"Actually not becoming an All Black may have been a blessing in disguise: if I had been an All Black I may have only been a midweek player and I wouldn't have got the same feeling as I got playing for Manu Samoa."
Several of Fatialofa's Auckland and All Black team mates will play in his farewell match in Apia in November.
Terrified civilians flooded out of the Chechen capital on Tuesday after a top Russian military official threatened to use planes and heavy artillery to drive separatist forces from the city.
The refugees, many of them with little more than the clothes in which they stood, said Russian planes had started bombing the town, much of it already in ruins after attacks at the start of Russia's campaign to crush Chechnya's independence bid.
"The whole city is on its way out," said Nina Madayeva, who said 12 planes had bombed Grozny's southwestern Chernorechye district overnight. "We've been in a basement for 14 or 15 days and couldn't stand it any more."
Konstantin Pulikovsky, Russia's acting commander in Chechnya, said his forces had begun artillery attacks on rebels in Grozny and would bomb the city if needed to drive them out. But he denied that bombing had already started.
Pulikovsky, who signed a ceasefire order on Saturday, accused the guerrillas of using the truce to dig in in the regional capital, much of which they seized two weeks ago.
"I see force as the only way out of the situation in Grozny," he told Interfax news agency.
Rebel chief-of-staff Aslan Maskhadov appealed to Kremlin security chief Alexander Lebed, who has held talks with the rebels and opposed the use of aircraft, to rein in Pulikovsky's troops.
President Boris Yeltsin's special envoy in Chechnya should "use all of his influence to stop the approaching madness", Interfax quoted Maskhadov as saying.
Itar-Tass news agency said Lebed would travel to Chechnya on Wednesday -- his third visit to the region in just over a week. Tass said Lebed remained committed to a peaceful solution to the Chechen conflict.
The rebels, who seek independence for their territory, swept into Grozny on August 6, seizing key buildings and trapping Russian soldiers in their checkpoints and in the central government complex.
Pulikovsky, who on Monday gave civilians 48 hours to leave before he unleashes an all-out bombardment, said on Tuesday he was determined to drive the rebels out.
Doku Zavgayev, who heads the Moscow-backed administration in Chechnya, told a news conference that 50,000 people had fled Grozny in the last two weeks, but he believed 300,000 were still living in the city.
"As long as there are so many civilians in the town the use of force, let alone a full-scale operation, is totally unacceptable," he said.
Zavgayev and his administration colleagues, viewed as stooges by the separatists, have spoken out frequently against Russian military action in recent months, although its own security depends on the troops which moved into Chechnya in December 1994.
Pulikovsky's views are in sharp contrast with those of Lebed, who won guarded approval from rebel leaders in two visits to Chechnya last week. His spokesman told Tass on Monday, before the army threat, that Lebed opposed bombing.
"Aerial bombardment as a military method of settling the problem, even with the evacuation of civilians, will lead only to widening the conflict zone," the spokesman, Alexander Barkhatov, quoted Lebed as saying.
Pulikovsky, who met Maskhadov twice last week to arrange the latest truce, said he was sure of the backing of Russia's leaders. He said he was acting "in the interests of the state".
The Kremlin and the army have sounded different notes on Chechnya in the past. Yeltsin, trying to end the war before the presidential election in July, ordered a halt to an offensive in March, but the generals continued bombarding Chechen villages.
Yeltsin won a lull with a ceasefire in May, but shortly after his re-election the army went on the offensive again and the rebels say that this provoked their raid on Grozny.
The United States may seek an informal alliance with Japan and the European Union to win world trade rules to assure fair play by state trading enterprises, an Agriculture Department official said Tuesday.
A new round of world trade talks was scheduled to begin in 1999. Agriculture Secretary Dan Glickman said earlier this summer that U.S. priorities would be elimination of unfair export subsidies and controls on so-called STEs.
Richard Schroeter, deputy administrator of international trade policy for the Agriculture Department, said there could be grounds for Japan and the EU to assist the U.S. drive.
"If we look at export subsidies, can the United States and the EU afford to eliminate or further reduce their subsidies while certain practices of other countries, which can be equivalent to export subsidies are allowed to continue?" Schroeter said at the International Sweetener Symposium.
"I speak here, for example, of state trading enterprises, or some producer-financed operations. My view is that there should be equivalent disciplines to avoid disadvantaging our producers."
So far, Japan, the EU and the United States have met market access commitments under world trade rules, he said.
If other nations wish to see further market-opening steps, Schroeter said, "they're going to have to take part on this issue" of state trading enterprises.
The U.S. view is that STEs, which often have monopoly control over imports or exports, can obstruct trade or engage in unfair sales practices. U.S. officials frequently cite the Canadian Wheat Board and Australian dairy exports in their complaints about state trading enterprises.
In the previous trade round, Japan's import quotas and EU farm subsidies were major U.S. targets.
Taiwan Vice-President Lien Chan's secretive journey has taken him to Ukraine, a state-funded television station said on Tuesday.
The broadcast gave no source for the information.
Taiwan's authoritative United Daily News, also giving no source for its information, said in Tuesday's edition that Lien would meet in Kiev with Ukraine's head of state.
Ukraine, a member of the former Soviet Union, recognises the communist government in Beijing, not Taiwan's exiled Republic of China government, but has made clear its desire for better relations with Taiwan and its powerful export-driven economy.
Since a civil war separated them in 1949, Beijing has regarded Taiwan as a renegade province ineligible for sovereign ties with other countries and has pledged to retake Taiwan by force if it tries to become an independent country.
NOTE - Mobile said shareholders would have the option to take up a capitalisation share award in lieu of the dividend in the ratio of 1.739130 shares for every 100 existing Mobile shares held.
U.S. Plains cattle markets erupted into active trading by late morning Tuesday, with brisk sales at $68.00 per cwt, up $1.00 from earlier and up $2.00 from a week ago, feedlot sources said.
About 11,000 head had traded so far in the Texas Panhandle/western Oklahoma area, mostly at $68.00 following a slow start at $67.00, the sources said.
An estimated 10,300 head have sold at $68.00 in Kansas, according to USDA.
Nebraska sources also reported active sales at $68.00 on a live basis and $108.00 per cwt on a dressed basis, up $2 from a week ago.
The state-run Bharat Petroleum Corporation Ltd (BPCL) sold 5.04 million tonnes of petroleum products from April to July 1996, a company official said.
"Against an average growth rate of 4.78 percent for the industry during the period 1991/92 (April-March) to 1994/95, BPCL's sales increased by 7.34 percent," BPCL said in a statement.
This trend continued during 1995/96 and the company achieved its highest ever sales volume of 14.8 million tonnes, registering a growth of 11.7 percent, higher than the industry growth of 11 percent, it said.
The growth rate was high in the following products - LPG 13.3 percent, aviation fuel 10.1 percent, diesel 17.4 percent and furnace oil 20.4 percent, BPCL said.
BPCL achieved a 20.3 percent share of the Indian market in 1995/96, up from 18.8 percent in 1991/92.
BPCL said it planned to establish new refineries to bridge the gap between its refining capacity and its marketing requirements.
A contractor for project management consultancy would shortly be appointed for a new refinery at Bina in central India in partnership with Oman Oil Company, it said.
A 950-km cross-country pipeline from the Gujarat coast would transport imported crude to the proposed refinery. The idea was to execute the project as a turnkey contract, officials said.
This refinery will process six million tonnes of crude oil a year. BPCL is also pursuing various approvals for another new refinery planned in the north India in partnership with Shell International.
This refinery would have a capacity to process seven million tonnes of crude a year.
Petroleum Infrastructure Ltd, a joint venture between BPCL and Gujarat Gas Company is expected to commission a new LPG import facility in Okha on the western coast by September 1996, the BPCL statement said.
Petroleum Infrastructure is also planning a 4.0 billion-rupee dedicated port terminal to store LPG on the western coast.
To part finance capital expenditure and to broaden shareholder base, BPCL is planning a public issue of 15 million shares at a premium yet to be determined, officials said.
After the issue, the government holding in BPCL would come down to 60.2 percent from the current 66.2 percent.
BPCL also plans to tap the international equity market next year, company officials said, without giving any details.
A group led by New York investment manager Mario Gabelli said Tuesday it raised its stake in Culbro Corp to 1,076,500 common shares or 24.06 percent from 22.56 percent held previously.
In a filing with the Securities and Exchange Commission, the group said its latest transactions include net purchases of 42,300 common shares between August 12 and August 16 at prices ranging from $43.3750 to $54.3625 per share.
Bay Pond Partners L.P. said Tuesday it holds a 9.31 percent stake in Mississippi View Holding Co or 89,200 common shares.
In a filing with the Securities and Exchange Commission, Bay Pond said its latest transactions included the purchase of 22,500 shares on May 7 at a price of $11.3125 per share.
The Bulgarian lev closed at 198.60/80 per dollar, a touch firmer than a midday low of 198.80/00 due to a slight rise of foreign currency supply but still softer than the opening at 198.00/50, dealers said.
The lev weakened to 199-200 per dollar in late morning trade after dollar supply dwindled on expectations of a fresh lev fall.
Banks were bidding for foreign currency mostly on behalf of big clients, which dealers said sought large dollar volumes.
Some dealers said the Bulgarian National Bank (BNB) might have offered foreign currency in the afternoon to halt the lev decline but central bank officials said the BNB had not appeared in the market Tuesday.
Other dealers said a large state bank had offered dollars to the market in the afternoon to support the lev ahead of the visit of the International Monetary Fund (IMF) mission due to begin on Wednesday.
Top seed Michael Chang came off a week's rest and handily beat unseeded David Prinosil of Germany 6-1 6-3 on Monday in the opening round of the Waldbaum Hamlet Cup tennis tournament.
Chang, ranked third in the world, needed only 68 minutes to eliminate Prinosil, ranked 64th.
Chang opened a 3-0 lead and closed the match by taking the last four games.
"It was a good match for me and it felt good playing on a Monday for a change," Chang said. "My schedule was planned this way to give me a rest before the Hamlet and let me get some good matches and go right into the U.S. Open."
Chang said planned rests during the ATP hard court circuit had been successful. He won 14 successive matches, taking titles in Washington and Los Angeles before losing a final in Cincinnati to Andre Agassi last week.
A pair of players from Morocco, Younes El Aynaoui, the sixth seed, and Hicham Arazi, unseeded, posted first-round victories.
El Aynaoui, top-ranked in his home country for the past six years, beat Nicolas Lapentti of Ecuador 6-4 6-3.
Arazi, a slightly built lefthander who is playing his first year on the ATP Tour, upset eighth-seeded Magnus Larsson of Sweden, 6-3 2-6 6-4.
Arazi, who has steadily climbed from a ranking of 1,093rd in 1991 to a current 82nd, tenaciously fought off Larsson, who failed to convert 10 of 12 break points.
Larsson, who ranked 10th before suffering a fractured foot last year and was out of action five months, is now ranked 59th.
"It takes time to work back into shape. It shakes your confidence," he said.
Arazi, who qualified for the U.S. Open last year and lost a four-set first-rounder to Ukrainian Andrei Medvedev, said he is playing with confidence.
"I beat Medvedev in Bologna this year," he said. "It felt good. Now I'm going to get into the U.S. Open main draw with my ranking. I want to win my first match and then take it day by day."
In beating Larsson, Arazi overcame three doublefaults to hold service in a 14-point game and stay 2-all in the third set. He then broke Larsson and protected service from 0-30 and 30-all down the stretch.
Former State Department official Steven Berry was awarded $216,377 by a federal court on Tuesday for legal fees he incurred during an investigation into President Bill Clinton's passport records.
The case stemmed from a State Department review of Clinton's passport file during the 1992 presidential election campaign in response to rumours Clinton might have written a letter renouncing his U.S. citizenship to avoid the draft during the Vietnam War.
No such letter was found and an independent counsel was appointed after the election to investigate whether Clinton's records had been improperly searched for political reasons. Berry, then assistant secretary of state for legislative affairs, was told by Independent Counsel Joseph diGenova he was one of those being investigated.
In 1995, diGenova issued a report that said there was no evidence to warrant the prosecution of anyone for their conduct in connection with the passport files search. As Berry was a subject of the investigation but was not charged, he was entitled by law to be reimbursed by the federal government for reasonable legal fees and expenses.
Berry, now a member of a Washington law firm, asked for $256,145 in attorney's fees but the U.S. Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia deducted $45,837 it said was not allowable. The court also approved $6,069 in expenses.
An Indian newspaper said on Tuesday that the Civil Aviation Ministry had rejected a proposal to allow foreign companies to take equity stakes in domestic airlines.
The Economic Times quoted Civil Aviation Minister C.M. Ibrahim as saying the decision to retain a ban on foreign equity participation in the sector meant a proposed joint venture linking Singapore Airlines (SIA) and India's Tata Industries Ltd would not go ahead.
"The union Civil Aviation Ministry has spiked plans for foreign equity participation in the aviation sector, thereby grounding the controversial Tata-Singapore Airlines proposal for once and for all," the newspaper said in a front-page article.
Civil Aviation Ministry officials could not be reached for comment.
The newspaper said the ministry planned to devote its energies to shoring up loss-making Air-India, the national overseas carrier.
In 1991 India began dimantling the state's aviation monopoly as part of an economic reform programme, opening its air travel sector to more than a dozen domestically owned airlines.
In February 1995, Singapore Airlines and Tata Industries submitted a proposal to India's Foreign Investment and Promotion Board (FIPB) to launch the joint venture airline. Tata would hold a 60 percent stake and SIA the rest.
Since then the proposal has languished with the government, which has said the tie-up would have to wait until the nation's airport infrastructure was expanded.
A New York State Senator, who represents Manhattan and The Bronx, on Tuesday charged the Pataki Administration with "geographic patronage," saying New York City is not getting its fair share of state assistance.
Franz Leichter, a Democrat, said the number of economic development grants and loans awarded to New York City fell sharply after Gov. George Pataki won the 1994 election, even though the city has 40 percent of the state's businesses.
New York City has been penalized, along with Albany, for not voting for Pataki, who is a Republican, Leichter said, adding that areas like Westchester, Long Island and Upstate regions that supported Pataki have gotten a bigger share.
Long Island got 27 percent of all the grants, nearly twice as many as any other area, he said. The senator noted that a key adviser of Pataki, U.S. Sen. Alfonse D'Amato, and the chairman of the Empire State Development Corp, Charles Gargano, both reside on Long Island.
Because New York City is the biggest force in the state's economy, the Pataki Administration's unfair division of state assistance has crimped the state's overall growth, in addition to hurting the city, where unemployment has risen, he said.
"The governor's economic development program has been more geared toward rewarding political supporters than spurring job creation and economic growth," Leichter said, in prepared remarks  released at a news conference held at City Hall.
The senator pointed to the state's unemployment rate, saying it stagnated at 6.1 percent from January 1995, when Pataki took office, through June of 1996. In July, the state's unemployment rate rose to 6.6 percent, while the measure shot up to 9.1 percent in New York City, the Labor Department said.
A spokeswoman for the Empire State Development Corp gave short shrift to the senator's study, saying the release was a political attack and that she could not confirm the data. She blasted Leichter for not addressing the high unemployment rate when Mario Cuomo, a Democrat, was governor.
"Franz Leichter fails to say that his type of liberal policies are responsible for New York State hemorhaging 500,000 jobs betweeen 1989 to 1994," the spokeswoman said.
The city has received substantial assistance from the Pataki Administration, she added, citing $32 million provided by the state to redevelop 42nd Street and a $100 million commitment for the Upper Manhattan Empowerment Zone.
To keep the Coffee, Sugar and Cocoa Exchange and New York Cotton Exchange in downtown Manhattan, the state and city are splitting the cost of a $98.5 million package to help them build a new site. The New York Mercantile Exchange, which will share the facility, got a smaller package, she said.
According to Leichter's analysis, the city's five boroughs got 47 grants and loans, 14 percent of the 328 that were handed out throughout the state. The total number of applications for such assistance were not provided.
When measured in dollars, the city's share fell to nine percent or $7.6 million out of a total of $86 million of grants.
Five of the state's nine other regions got more grant money, with firms in the Finger Lakes getting $17.2 million. Those in the mid-Hudson Valley got $13.6 million, the Southern Tier got $9.3 million, Western New York received $8.7 million, and central New York obtained $8.3 million.
Small businesses also suffered, Leichter said, as in 1995, ones located in New York City got three percent of the 33 projects that were approved, or $1.07 million of the $10.95 million allocated.
Madrid stocks managed a slight gain at the close on Tuesday, but trade was thin as the market kept a wary eye on the outcome of the U.S. Federal Reserve's open market committee.
The Fed is thought likely to leave rates unchanged. But regardless of its decision the prospect of Thursday's Bundesbank meeting should make sure volumes remain minimal for the next two days, with trading limited to a narrow range.
The general index rose 0.77 points, 0.22 percent, to 354.03 and the Ibex added 9.97 points, 0.25 percent, to 4,022.23.
Turnover totalled around 21 billion pesetas.
BBV climbed 70 pesetas to 5,230 after positive press reports on its Latin American investments, traders said.
Food retailer Pryca saw a sharp rise of 80 pesetas to 3,025 in busy trade amid talk that first half results, due to be announced in September, will be healthy dealers said.
Except for selected stocks trade was dull, with the extreme price swings characteristic of thin volume.
The tone is expected to remain similar at least until after the UK bank holiday on August 26.
The U.S. interest rate status quo was shrugged off in the quiet trading of emerging market debts and the Brady bonds finished the day mostly flat.
"The absence of a rate hike was already priced in," said Shafiq Islam, emerging market fixed income strategist at Credit Suisse. "It is marginally positive."
The International Monetary Fund officials are in Buenos Aires to review Argentine fiscal deficits which are expected to reach $6.6 billion this year.
Argentina FRBs eased 1/8 to 77-1/4 and Argentina Pars slipped 3/8 to 54-3/4.
Brazil fared slightly better than Argentina, with Brazil C adding 3/8 to 65-1/8.
While Brazil's trade deficit of $334 million in July would not pose a problem to the currency, the stalled reform continued casting a shadow, he said.
Mexico papers were underpinned by the robust 7.2 percent gross domestic product growth in the second quarter, but some market participants questioned if the optimism might be overstated.
"If the second quarter is compared to the first quarter on a seasonally adjusted basis, you get only a one-percent growth," said Shafiq at Credit Suisse.
Mexico Pars rose 1/8 to 67-1/2 and Discount added 1/4 to 80-3/8.
Among East European papers, Bulgaria was depressed by recurring concerns about its weak currency and low level of reserves, traders said.
Bulgaria FLRB lost 1/2 to 33-1/4.
Russia debt prices retreated on profit-taking.
"We are comfortable with Russia," said a U.S. bank trader. With the IMF about to release the delayed tranche of aid and the overall low indebtedness, Russia debts were still relatively cheap, he said.
COST PLUS, INC.
The (U.S.) Federal Reserve opted on Tuesday to hold interest rates steady amid signs that the economy is cooling off without inflation heating up.
The decision by the central bank's policy-making Federal Open Market Committee had been widely expected and left the key federal funds rate that commercial banks charge each other for overnight money unchanged at 5.25 percent.
"The Federal Open Market Committee meeting ended at 12:45 p.m (1645 GMT). There is no further announcement," central bank spokesman Joseph Coyne said in a brief statement.
The decision to hold rates steady keeps the independent Fed out of the line of political fire in the approach to the Nov. 5 presidential and congressional elections.
After growing at its fastest pace in two years in the second quarter, the economy looks to have slowed recently as the housing market has weakened and retail sales have stalled.
"It's no surprise that the Federal Reserve felt justified sitting on its hands, since there have been so many mixed signals in the economy," said Bill Cheney, chief economist at Boston-based John Hancock Financial Services.
Most analysts expect the economy to lose more momentum as the second half continues. But it remains an open question whether it will slow enough to keep inflation in check.
That means a precautionary rate rise is possible later in the year, once the Fed has more evidence to help it measure how much the expansion is slowing, economists said.
More than half of 30 economists surveyed by Reuters last week forecast a rate increase by the end of the year.
"Fed officials would prefer not to act in the last month or two before the election if they can help it," Hancock's Cheney said. But he added that he believed the next rate move could just as well be down as up.
Tuesday's FOMC meeting was sandwiched between the Republican Party's presidential nominating convention last week in San Diego and the Democrats' next week in Chicago.
A rate rise ahead of the election would not be good news for President Clinton in his drive to win a second term, although it would likely have little immediate impact on an economy that still has considerable forward momentum.
The economy grew at a 4.2 percent annualized pace in the second quarter -- about twice the speed most economists reckon is sustainable on a long-term basis without fanning inflation.
The jobs market has remained buoyant, putting extra money in workers' pockets and portending continued solid consumer spending.
The Fed holds its next policy-making FOMC meeting on Sept. 24. Since cutting rates by one quarter of a percentage point in January, the central bank has held monetary policy steady.
Latest Australian monthly economic data.
First six months to June 30, 1996.
    Group operating			    26.1    vs    n.a.
    Group pre-tax loss			  3.1    vs    n.a.
    Group net				    50.2    vs    n.a.
    Group cash flow			   142.0    vs    n.a.
NOTE - Full company name is Austria Mikro Systeme International AG. 1995 figures for the group unavailable as AMS' two acquisitions -- SAMES and Thesys -- were realised in the second half of 1995.
    Group sales				1,056.9   vs    n.a.
    Group extraordinary expenses	     0.518 vs    n.a.
    Group tax payments			  18.921 vs    n.a.
    Group incoming orders		    762.4   vs    n.a.
    Group orders in hand		     737.0   vs    n.a.
    Group investment			   240.0   vs    n.a.
    Group depreciation			 190.6   vs    n.a.
    Group workforce			  1,448     vs    n.a.
Silver prices were at their highest levels since mid-June on Tuesday after speculative buying sent the New York market surging overnight, dealers said.
Gold followed only reluctantly, but market analysts said it could eventually make a go of breaking through its recent price ceiling at just under $390 an ounce.
Silver closed at $5.23 an ounce, up eleven cents from Monday's London close. It fixed at just over $5.20 an ounce, the highest fixing since June 19.
Silver eased a bit as dealers took their profits in early European business after reaching a peak of $5.26 overnight.
But several dealers said they saw it venturing higher later this week. "It's a purely technical move, but I can see it going for $5.30 this week," one said.
Technical analysts or chartists who follow detailed charts of past prices said that the rally needed to clear the $5.25 resistance level before pushing higher.
Silver have been trending lower since peaking at a fix of around $5.83 in early February.
"Silver is not out of the woods yet," said analyst Cliff Green of Trend Analysis. "But getting up past that $5.15-45.16 area is a positive step."
In contrast, bullion closed just $0.90 higher at $387.55 an ounce, virtually ignoring silver's newfound strength.
"Gold has had a bit of a dismal performance. The move seems to be just in silver," one dealer said.
But some chartists said gold has scope to move higher.
"Obviously much depends on gold's ability to clear the critical resistance immediately below $390," said analyst Elli Gifford of Investment Research of Cambridge.
"But silver's recovery following what is looking to be a false breakdown earlier below $5.00 adds to the evidence this may occur," she added.
Some analysts said gold was being cautious while waiting for the outcome of the U.S. Federal Open Market Committee (FOMC) meeting in New York in case of surprises on interest rates.
Another dampener was a slump in the South African rand, which was seen encouraging selling by South African producers.
Palladium closed at $125.60, up $0.95 and off recent 2-1/2 year lows, while platinum ended $1.40 higher at $399.80.
South African interest rates were expected to move sideways with upward potential in the short- to medium-term, WorldGroup Software said in its latest monthly interest rate forecast.
It said that current volatility on local financial markets meant a longer-term view was more appropriate.
The group forecast that in the longer-term, there was stronger downward potential for a fall in rates.
"The possibility of rates decreasing becomes stronger as the time horizon extends into the future," it said.
The six economists who participated in the August forecast were Edwin Basson of Iscor, Dennis Dykes at Nedcor, Louis Fourie from JMM Beleggingsdienste, Adam Jacobs of Absa, Ulrich Joubert at Transnet and Helmo Preuss of Forecaster Ecosa.
Smaller-than-expected summer cash withdrawals from banks pushed the central bank's reserve money aggregate below its target in July, a senior National Bank of Poland (NBP) official said on Tuesday.
Earlier today, the NBP said July's average daily reserve money level, the bank's operational monetary policy target, was at 31.861 billion zlotys, against the 32.4-33.1 billion target.
"Demand for cash in circulation fell in July due to seasonal factors and did not correspond with estimates done on 1995 basis," Jacek Osinski, deputy head of monetary policy and credit department, told Reuters.
He said cash in circulation, which makes up about 70 percent of reserve money, failed to grow as quickly as forecasted because cold and rainy weather in July kept many would-be holiday makers at home and curbed demand for cash.
Cash in circulation inched up by 0.6 percent in July to 22.49 billion zlotys after growing by 2.3 percent in June.
However, for a large part of the month cash in circulation was actually declining and, because reserve money is calculated using a daily average, July's average level fell, Osinski said.
The central bank has missed its monthly reserve money target only twice since the start of the year by exceeding it in March and falling below the set goal in July.
The NBP sets the monthly reserve money level as its operational goal for this year through which it wants to control money supply and, consequently, price growth.
Reserve money, also referred as high-powered money or monetary base, comprises cash in circulation, cash in vaults and bank's obligatory reserves.
NOTE: Company said registration statement declared effective on Tuesday, August 20. All shares being sold by company. Prior to completion of the offering, all communities have been operated by Vencor.
The $13 to $15 estimated range was filed in the company's original filing with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission.
Emerging evidence that Mexico's economy was back on the recovery track sent Mexican markets into a buzz of excitement Tuesday, with stocks closing at record highs and interest rates at 19-month lows.
"Mexico has been trying to stage a recovery since the beginning of this year and it's always been getting ahead of itself in terms of fundamentals," said Matthew Hickman of Lehman Brothers in New York.
"Now we're at the point where the fundamentals are with us. The history is now falling out of view."
That history is one etched into the minds of all investors in Mexico: an economy in crisis since December 1994, a free-falling peso and stubbornly high interest rates.
This week, however, second-quarter gross domestic product was reported up 7.2 percent, much stronger than most analysts had expected. Interest rates on governent Treasury bills, or Cetes, in the secondary market fell on Tuesday to 23.90 percent, their lowest level since Jan. 25, 1995.
The stock market's main price index rallied 77.12 points, or 2.32 percent, to a record 3,401.79 points, with volume at a frenzied 159.89 million shares.
Confounding all expectations has been the strength of the peso, which ended higher in its longer-term contracts on Tuesday despite the secondary Cetes drop and expectations of lower benchmark rates in Tuesday's weekly auction.
With U.S. long-term interest rates expected to remain steady after the Federal Reserve refrained from raising short-term rates on Tuesday, the attraction of Mexico, analysts say, is that it offers robust returns for foreigners and growing confidence that they will not fall victim to a crumbling peso.
"The focus is back on Mexican fundamentals," said Lars Schonander, head of researcher at Santander in Mexico City. "You have a continuing decline in inflation, a stronger-than-expected GDP growth figure and the lack of any upward move in U.S. rates."
Other factors were also at play, said Felix Boni, head of research at James Capel in Mexico City, such as positive technicals and economic uncertainty in Argentina, which has put it and neighbouring Brazil's markets at risk.
"There's a movement out of South American markets into Mexico," he said. But Boni was also wary of what he said could be "a lot of hype."
The economic recovery was still export-led, and evidence was patchy that the domestic consumer was back with a vengeance. Also, corporate earnings need to grow strongly to justify the run-up in the stock market, he said.
Note: Full company name is Kurzweil Applied Intelligence Inc.
(in thousands, except for per share amounts) -- New York Newsdesk 212-859-1610.
Following is a selection of economists' reactions to German July M3 money supply data which showed annualised, seasonally-adjusted M3 growth of 8.6 percent in July versus 9.6 percent in June.
Economists polled by Reuters had predicted M3 growth of 8.8 percent on average.
"It was at the lower end of our expectation, which was 8.6 to 9.1 percent. It is now very clear that we have a very good chance to reach the Bundesbank target zone (of four to seven percent growth for 1996). I think there is a very good chance that we will see a cut in the repo rate. We expect the Ifo business climate index to rise, but not by such rate that would put off cutting the rate. We would need to see a very sharp rebound to about 93 or 94 (from 90.4 in June). But even then I would not see this as such a good figure to stop a cut."
"Today's figures have certainly increased the chance for a move. (Bundesbank chief economist) Issing hinted at the increased chance for a move last week. I think on balance they will cut the repo rate."
"Bunds ticked up right after the number but fell down to almost an unchanged level. It was what the market was looking for. It was pretty much a neutral figure. I think a repo rate cut has definitely been factored into the market considering the Euromark contracts. We are waiting to see the final cut. If we do not get it this week, we will look to the next meeting. It would become an ongoing game."
Mexican President Ernesto Zedillo said on Tuesday that second-quarter growth of 7.2 percent was a clear sign that the Mexican economy was recovering from a crisis that began in December 1994.
The government said Sunday night that the gross domestic product grew by 7.2 percent in the second quarter of 1996 compared with the same period a year earlier.
Zedillo added that the current phase was one "of recovery for our country."
The California Jockey Club Shareholders Committee Tuesday formally objected to the California Jockey Club's recently announced agreement with Hudson Bay Partners LP to effect a major corporate restructuring.
In a statement, Ron Volkman, a member of the committee and one of the committee's nominees for election to the board of directors said shareholders would be "locked in" to a minority position without obtaining a true premium for surrendering control of the company.
"There is no guarantee that the massive cash infusion will be used wisely, rather than for even more improvident real estate speculation to the detriment of our historic franchise of live racing.
California Jockey on Monday said Hudson Bay partners would invest $300 million in two new limited partnerships.
Bankrupt online information service Europe Online SA logged off on Tuesday after last-ditch talks with Deutsche Telekom and others to keep the Luxembourg-based operation running finally bit the dust.
"Europe Online has ceased to operate. No agreement was reached by a deadline this morning so we had to close it down," Albert Wildgen, a member of the team of Europe Online's liquidators, told Reuters. He declined to give further details.
The company suffered a major financial blow when its biggest single shareholder, German publisher Burda, said in July it was pulling the plug on further funding.
Desperate attempts followed to find new investors or shareholders, which included negotiations with rival U.S. online company CompuServe and Deutsche Telekom, but no deal was reached and the company was declared bankrupt on August 2.
A legal source close to the liquidation process, who asked not to be named, said German telecommunications company Deutsche Telekom had decided late last week against salvaging the operation, adding, "It would have been a pure asset deal."
Similar talks had continued with two other, unnamed parties but these too failed, the source said.
Deutsche Telekom, which was owed money by Europe Online for access to its own data network, said at the beginning of August that it remained interested in cooperation with the company.
"Deutsche Telekom wants to go international and one option was to chose the assets of Europe Online. But in the end they decided it was not worth it," the legal source said.
"Europe Online broke down at an early stage of its development -- it had brilliant ideas, but not enough substance (for Deutsche Telekom)," he added. Deutsche Telekom's own successful T-Online service has over a million German customers.
With about 25,000 subscribers altogether, Europe Online had national services in Germany, Britain and Luxembourg, as well as an international service in English, which included news, weather, travel, sports and entertainment.
Liquidators said all that was left now was to sell off the individual assets of the company. They said that at the time of its bankruptcy, Europe Online had debts of about $40 million, of which about $30 million in the form of loans by shareholders.
Besides Burda, with a 26-percent direct stake in Europe Online and a further seven percent in trust, shareholders included two U.S. companies, AT&T and Meigher Communications, Britain's Pearson Plc, and Luxembourg's Banque et Caisse d'Epargne de l'Etat (BCEE) and Societe Nationale de Credit et d'Investissement (SNCI).
WCE canola futures settled mostly higher except for spot August which ended on the downside.
Concerns over an early frost in Canada and the United States have diminished but traders said they believe a weather premium is needed due to the fast approaching frost season.
In export news, Canada sold 20,000 to 25,000 tonnes of canola to Japan in an overnight tender, traders said.
Positive crop production reports, coupled with slack domestic crusher demand, tempered the gains, traders said.
Renewed talk of frost affecting key canola growing regions of northern Alberta early next week generated some local and commission house buying interest, they said.
August canola lost $5.00 at $460.00 per tonne while September firmed $0.30 to $423.50.
Flaxseed futures were thinly traded with October up $1.20 at $389.20. Western domestic feed barley prices rose amid some followthrough buying after Monday's strong close.
Short covering ahead of expiration Wednesday lifted August feed barley $4.80 at $162.40.
October feed wheat was up $1.90 at $198.60 while feed peas were mainly lower in light trade.
NOTE - The company said prospects for the current financial year depended on sustained business confidence and continued growth in the economy.
But it believed that through the ongoing development of alliances, by representing and developing best products and services, and by extending value added capabilities, real earnings growth should be achieved.
Failed Australian businessman Alan Bond was jailed for three years on Tuesday for fraud involving the French impressionist painting, La Promenade.
In sentencing Bond, the Australian judge said the jail term was not the maximum 14-year sentence, but it would be like a "life sentence" as it would haunt the former high-flyer forever.
Bond, lauded as Australian of the Year after winning the prestigious America's Cup yacht race in 1983, will appeal the conviction, his lawyers later said.
Bond, whose personal fortune was estimated at A$350 million (US$273 million) in the late 1980s, was found guilty last Friday on four fraud charges surrounding the sale of Eduoard Manet's La Promenade.
The jury found that Bond had improperly used his position as director of his former corporate flagship, Bond Corporation Holdings Ltd, to allow his private company to buy La Promenade for about A$10 million less than its market value in 1988.
His private company, Dallhold Investments Pty Ltd, bought the painting for A$2.46 million and sold it a year later at auction in New York for A$17 million.
Judge Antoinette Kennedy said Bond's "passion for art" and his inability to accept that Bond Corporation was no longer his "private fiefdom" led to the fraud offences.
Kennedy said some people might consider Bond's punishment lenient.
But Kennedy said the prison term would seem like a "life sentence" for an individual with Bond's high profile.
"Such people must understand that time in prison goes a lot slower than time outside...and that any prison sentence is a life sentence in a sense for someone in your position, in that you cannot sink into anonymity," Kennedy said.
Bond, 58, who appeared composed during the sentencing, smiled during a brief conversation with his wife, Diana Bliss, before being led away from the dock.
Kennedy dismissed a claim by defence lawyers that a custodial sentence would kill Bond because of his failing health but did not impose the maximum penalty of 14 years in prison.
Bond's lawyers said the former apprentice signwriter suffered from high blood pressure and heart problems but Kennedy ruled that his condition could be properly monitored in prison.
Bond, an avid art collector in his heyday, faces further charges associated with the collapse of his corporate empire in the early 1990s.
Bond was jailed for two-and-a-half years in 1992 after being found guilty of inducing a former friend to contribute to the rescue of a Western Australia bank while concealing a A$16 million fee for his own company.
He served only a few months in jail before a second jury acquitted him at a re-trial in November 1992.
Novell Inc. Tuesday unveiled its new IntranetWare software, intended to establish the computer networking company in the growing market for internal corporate networks known as intranets.
Novell has been a leader since 1983 in conventional networking software but has fallen behind Netscape Communications Corp. and Microsoft Corp. in the competition for intranets, private networks which function like the Internet's Web.
"With IntranetWare, Novell opens our product line and (our) 55 million customers to the future of networking," said Novell Chairman Robert Frankenberg. The company provides software for an estimated 1 million networks with 55 million users.
Orem, Utah-based Novell's IntranetWare is a full-service intranet and Internet access product for businesses of all sizes. It builds on the features of the company's Netware 4.11 network software.
The latest product offers a high-performance Web browser and server software -- the software needed to access and publish Web pages --  and is designed to take advantage of the latest standards for surfing the Internet and using far-flung corporate networks.
Novell did not give prices for the software, which it plans to release in the fall.
The company said IntranetWare is compatible with existing Novell network software and will allow companies to preserve previous investments in network software.
Novell said it will concentrate on IntranetWare in the future but will continue to sell and support NetWare 4 and NetWare 3.
Novell stock dropped 12.5 cents to $11.25 in afternoon trading on Nasdaq.
Thai stocks ended slightly higher after moving in negative territory for most of the session on Tuesday as a market support fund helped bolster the flagging bourse, brokers asid.
The SET index ended 3.93 points higher at 1,071.41 on thin 2.4 billion baht. Decliners outnumbered gainers 162 to 142 with 127 unchanged. The SET-50 index was 0.36 points higher at 81.25.
But stock analysts said the market, dogged by political worry for the past week, was still bearish. "A lot of people are still looking to sell," the foreign analyst said.
"The SET index has not able to rise because of political uncertainty, we just have to wait for the political situation to clear," said an analyst at Adkinson Securities.
Part of a 21 billion baht market support fund entered the market late on Monday and was thought to have been supporting some stocks on Tuesday.
The fund was announced at the beginning fo the month after the market retreated 15 percent in July as foreigners, worried about the economy, off-loaded Thai shares.
Communications firm Advanced Info was most active, ending four higher at 320, while United Commmunication slipped six to 256. Bangkok Bank was unchanged at 206 and Finance One gained one to 103.
Police investigating Belgium's child-sex scandal are concentrating on finding two teenage girls abducted a year ago by convicted rapist Marc Dutroux, Public Prosecutor Michel Bourlet said on Tuesday.
He said judicial authorities remain hopeful they will be found alive, as a hunt for the two became international, involving police across Europe.
"There are elements that allow us to believe that the two girls are still alive," Bourlet told a news conference in this southern town.
Belgian media speculated the two had been found in the Czech Republic. However, Bourlet firmly squashed that rumour.
At least 15 children have disappeared in Belgium in the past six years.
Seven have now been found dead, six are still missing and only two have so far been rescued--from a dungeon-style compartment in a house owned by Dutroux. Both girls had been sexually abused.
Dutroux led police on Saturday to the bodies of eight-year-olds Julie Lejeune and Melissa Russo -- kidnapped in June 1995 and starved to death in late February or early March.
Thousands of mourners paid their last respects to the youngsters on Tuesday as a horrified nation sought to come to terms with the deadly scandal.
"We are focusing on trying to find An (Marchal) and Eefje (Lambrecks). We are still hopeful but unfortunately we have no news to report," Bourlet told a news conference.
Dutroux has admitted kidnapping Marchal and Lambrecks in the port of Ostend last August. But their fate is a mystery.
"We are at the moment establishing contact with police in other countries via the services of Interpol," Major Jean-Marie Boudin, spokesman for the Belgian Gendarmerie's special missing children squad, told Reuters. "This process began today."
He declined to specify which countries had been contacted. The media spotlight has been on the Czech Republic, Germany, the Netherlands and France.
Boudin said the search also included Nathalie Geijsbregts who was 10 years old when she disappeared from the town of Berthem in February 1991.
Dutroux was formally charged on Friday with abduction and illegal imprisonment of children after police raided a house he owned in Charleroi and rescued 14-year-old Laetitia Delhez and 12-year-old Sabine Dardenne from a makeshift concrete dungeon.
Michel Lelievre was charged with same offence. Michelle Martin, Dutroux' second wife, has been charged as an accomplice, and Jean-Michel Nihoul was charged on Tuesday with criminal association.
Dutroux denied responsibility for the deaths on the grounds that at the time he was serving four months in jail for theft. But he did admit having paid Lelievre and another accomplice, Bernard Weinstein, 40,000 francs ($1,300) for the girls.
He also admitted killing Weinstein for letting the girls die. His body was found with the girls.
The two girls will be buried in a private ceremony on Thursday followed by a televised public memorial service in Liege at which police expect up to 100,000 people.
As the two friends lay side by side in white coffins on Tuesday, each bearing a brass plaque inscribed simply "Julie" and "Melissa", weeping people filed past at the rate of 500 an hour from early till late as Belgium poured out its grief.
Against stern warnings from the prosecutor involved and his own mother, Dutroux was released 10 years early in 1992 from a 13-year sentence for multiple rape and child abuse.
Police searching a house in a Charleroi suburb occupied by Lelievre found cells dug in the basement floor with evidence of occupation by children.
Belgian television showed pictures of deep, narrow trenches. It said police believed Dutroux had kept kidnapped children in the trenches before passing them on for sex.
Child rights lawyer Michele Hirsch told Reuters the Belgian case was symptomatic of a global sickness.
"Whether you talk about paedophilia, prostitution, pornography or the traffic in human organs, people are increasingly being treated as a primary resource," she said. "It is a a global problem."
The following bond was announced by lead manager Sal Oppenheim jr. & Cie.
 NOTES	*FIRST YEAR,STEPS-UP TO 5.375 PCT YEARS TWO TO FOUR.
Mazda Motor Corp. is using a foreign celebrity -- its own president -- to revamp its image in Japan.
Company President Henry Wallace, a famous figure in Japan as the first foreigner to head a major Japanese firm, is to star in Mazda's new advertising campaign.
The 50-year-old Wallace will appear in full-page advertisments in five major Japanese newspapers Thursday.
Mazda broke with tradition by putting a foreigner in the driver's seat and is doing so again with its new sales promotion. It is rare for a Japanese company to use photos of its top management in a campaign to sell its merchandise.
The ads will have a full picture of Wallace standing to the left and his comments about the company on the right.
Wallace has become a celebrity in Japan after being appointed president at Mazda, Japan's fifth-largest carmaker, in June.
Sent over by Ford Motor Co. several years ago to help turn around the troubled Japanese automaker, Wallace was given the top spot when Ford increased its equity stake in the company to about one-third.
Wallace comes originally from Edinburgh, Scotland, and has been employed by Ford for 25 years. He first joined Ford's British operation.
Mazda decided to use Wallace in its ads as the result of a survey showing that Japanese found him likeable and impressive, the spokesman said.
The company has been struggling with poor demand for most of its cars and has been in the red on a group net basis for the past three years. The losses were the result of a number of errors in assessing the market, analysts say.
Mazda is hoping a straight-forward approach in its ad will distinguish it from its rivals and capture the attention of consumers.
The ads displaying Wallace will carry the slogan "Practical car, Enjoyable car, That's Mazda."
The ad will be promoting its new compact recreational vehicle, the Demio, which will debut in Japan next week. Compact recreational vehicles are one of the hottest selling models for all Japanese automakers.
Mazda has had a relationship with Ford for many years. In May, Ford raised its stake in Mazda to 33.4 percent from 25 percent -- which gave it control of the management.
Ford sent Wallace to Japan to represent its interests in Mazda two years ago.
"If successful, Wallace may continue appearing in Mazda's future ads," the company spokesman said.
The value of sales of the Finnish hotel and restaurant branch increased 2.1 percent year-on-year in January-June, the Hotel and Restaurant Council said in a statement on Tuesday.
The volume of sales rose 0.9 percent, it said.
"June does not seem to have brought any change to the weak development of restaurant sales in the early months this year," the council said.
"The hotel accommodation sales trend, which has been quite satisfactory in the earlier months of the year, was clearly below expectations in June," it said.
The value of restaurant sales rose 1.2 percent year-on-year in June and 1.3 percent in the first six months of the year compared to the corresponding period in 1995. The volume of restaurant sales rose 1.0 percent and 0.7 percent respectively.
The value of hotel accommodation sales rose 1.9 percent year-on-year in June and the January-June increase was 6.2 percent.
The number of hotel rooms sold fell 3.0 percent year-on-year in June while the first-half change was a 2.0 percent increase, the council said.
The hotel occupancy rate fell to 52.5 percent in June, down 2.1 percentage points on June last year. In January-June, the hotel occupancy rate was up 0.4 percentage points year-on-year at 45 percent.
China, worried that Australia is considering selling uranium to Taiwan, on Tuesday called for prudence in the event of any such sale.
"Uranium is not an ordinary commodity. Exporting uranium to Taiwan is a highly sensitive issue," a Foreign Ministry spokesman said when asked about the reports.
"We express concern about the matter and request concerned countries to act with great care," he said without mentioning Australia by name.
Beijing and Taipei have been rivals since the Communists won the Chinese civil war in 1949 and sent the Nationalists fleeing to Taiwan.
Last week, Australia's Foreign Minister Alexander Downer said Canberra was studying whether uranium could be sold to Taiwan's state utility Taiwan Power Co with safeguards so that it would be used only for peaceful purposes.
Downer is scheduled to visit China this week.
Diplomats have said a sale could strain Sino-Australian ties already frayed over the axing of an aid scheme, plans by an Australian cabinet minister to visit Taiwan, a security pact between Canberra and Washington and a planned visit to Australia next month by Tibet's exiled spiritual leader the Dalai Lama.
Taiwan's state-owned Chinese Petroleum Corp (CPC) has issued a tender to buy 3,500 tonnes of methyl tertiary butyl ether (MTBE) for October 1-15 delivery, a CPC official said on Tuesday.
The cargo is to be delivered on a cost-and-freight (c-and-f) basis to Kaohsiung or Keelung at CPC's option.
The tender closes August 26 and offers would be valid August 28.
CPC's last purchase of MTBE was at $275 per tonne on a c-and-f basis, for September 1-15 delivery.
MTBE is an additive added to gasoline to boost its octane number.
Kansas and Arizona filed lawsuits Tuesday against major tobacco companies to recover Medicaid costs for smoking-related illnesses, joining a growing list of states and cities taking on Big Tobacco in court.
Kansas became the 11th state and Arizona the 12th to join the anti-tobacco litigation.
Kansas Attorney General Carla Stovall told a news conference her state's lawsuit was the broadest filed to date.
Stovall said that, in addition to trying to recover Medicaid costs, she would seek to require companies to stop marketing products to children, to disclose their knowledge of nicotine addiction, to publish corrective advertising and to fund a public education campaign on smoking.
Arizona Attorney General Grant Woods said his state was seeking more than $300 million in damages related to Medicaid costs Arizona has incurred in providing health care to indigent residents with alleged tobacco-related illnesses.
Woods said the tobacco companies have engaged in a "massive illegal conspiracy" representing that smoking is not addictive.
Arizona's lawsuit also alleged the companies violated antitrust, consumer fraud and fair trade practices.
In addition to the monetary damages, Arizona's lawsuit also asks the court to prohibit the companies from targeting children in their advertising, promotion and sales.
Woods alleged that tobacco products kill an estimated 5,000 Arizona residents a year.
Among the defendants in the two lawsuits were RJ Reynolds Tobacco Co., Brown & Williamson Tobacco Corp., Philip Morris Cos. Inc., Lorillard Tobacco Co. Inc., American Tobacco Co., public relations firm Hill and Knowlton Inc., the Council for Tobacco Research, and the Tobacco Institute.
South Korea's Kun Young Construction Corp applied for court receivership to be protected from its creditors, a court official said on Tuesday.
Tunisia's crude oil sales tender for early September cargoes was awarded at the top end of traders' price expectations, prompting some to speculate that sweet crude in the Mediterranean could be following the North Sea higher, traders said on Tuesday.
A cargo of Zarzaitine loading on September 8-10 was won by Elf at Dated Brent +48.5 cents while Glencore was believed to have won a Rhemoura loading on September 1-5 at an undisclosed price.
This supported Algeria's attempt to raise its September Saharan Blend contract prices from the current 56 cent premium to Dated Brent, a trader said, although contract holders are lobbying to keep prices unchanged.
"Oseberg is strong, West African is stable. There is no reason why Mediterranean sweets should go down," he added.
CIGNA International said it named John Billett to the newly-created post of vice president of regional life insurance operations, based in London.
Billett, previously with American International Group Inc, will be responsible for developing and implementing the company's life insurance business strategies in Europe and in selected markets in the Middle East and Africa.
CIGNA International is a division of CIGNA Corp.
--New York Newsdesk 212-859-1610.
IPE gas oil futures closed narrowly lower on Tuesday after a quiet session with most activity concentrated on the prompt spread, dealers said.
September gas oil settled at $188.25 a tonne, down 25 cents but towards the middle of the session's range of $186.50-$189.00 a tonne.
"Gas oil's been pretty quiet today apart from some interest in the Sept/Oct (spread)," said a broker.
Shortfalls in U.S. stocks of middle distillates -- mainly heating oil and diesel -- have boosted the entire energy complex in recent weeks.
IPE Brent crude continued to trade a narrow range, pulled lower by mild profit-taking after Monday's rally but meeting solid support from independent dealers on the exchange floor.
"The locals have been buying the dips today but basically the market has paused," said a broker.
"There's been very little paper going through this afternoon," said a broker.
"People are waiting for Sept to expire and then resume normal business tomorrow."
Dealers said they saw floor interest in the Brent-NYMEX crude arbitrage, with locals buying October Brent and selling October NYMEX crude. The Oct spread narrowed by two cents to $1.44 a barrel.
Kookmin Bank made its mark with a 150 million Deutsche mark floating rate note issue launched overnight in London via Westdeutsche Landesbank.
Asian debt markets otherwise slumbered through another summer day on Tuesday.
Kookmin's three-year notes were issued at 100.08 to float at 30 basis points over the six-month London Interbank Offered Rate. Fees are 20 basis points.
Bankers said Korean paper, including Korean bank FRNs, have become increasingly popular in Europe as the country moves closer to attaining membership in the Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development (OECD).
Another enticement to bank lenders in some European countries, including Germany, are tax treaties with Korea that make the issues that much more attractive.
News of the newest Asian issues came in the form of mandates for Union Bank of Hong Kong and South Korea's Hansol Bank.
Union Bank will launch a US$50 million floating rate certificate of deposit issue next week.
The deal, which is being arranged by Jardine Fleming and Bayerische Landesbank, has a final maturity of five years with put and call options in years three and four.
It will pay a margin of 45 basis points over LIBOR, but fees have not yet been set.
Hansol has mandated Credit Suisse and KDB Asia to arrange a US$40 million FRCD. The certificates will have a final maturity of three years with annual put options and no call options.
In other news, Deutsche Morgan Grenfell quelled rumours that Thailand's debut Euro FRN issue has been cancelled.
DMG, which won the mandate to arrange the five-year US$200 million issue in June, said the issue has been postponed due to the current political uncertainty in Thailand but has not been cancelled.
The notes were expected to be priced to float at some 5-10 basis points over LIBOR, which bankers said was a very thin margin for Thailand risk even before the recent flare-up in domestic political tensions.
The outlook for Prime Minister Banharn Silpa-archa's coalition government turned shaky last week after the third largest member, the Palang Dharma party, pulled out of the coalition.
Thailand's opposition parties today submitted a no-confidence motion against Banharn, accusing him of damaging the country through mismanagement and inefficiency.
Some bankers said Thailand is considering issuing a bond into the U.S. Yankee market, but others said that idea "has been shelved."
Silver stood out as key commodities drifted lower overnight, pushing the CRB index 1.32 points down to 250.65.
Silver fixed at its highest level since June 19 in London on Tuesday morning following buying by speculators in New York.
The metal fixed at $5.2025 an ounce, up 12 cents from Monday's fix and eight cents above Monday's London close.
Silver closed in London at $5.23, up 12 cents.
Copper prices drifted lower in routine trade on the London Metal Exchange, weighed down by light Far Eastern selling, a rise in stocks and weakening nearby spreads. Other base metals were narrowly mixed at the end of another sluggish day.
Three month copper futures finished the afternoon kerb at $1,931 a tonne against Monday's afternoon close of $1,942.
Cash narrowed to a $40/45 premium over three month values from $57 on Monday. Analysts were not ruling out further losses in the short term as bearish sentiment prevailed.
"In the short term we could see a test of $1,900 support, and $1,880 would need to hold below that," said William Adams of Rudolf Wolff. "I don't think the market is looking particularly strong at the moment," he added.
Copper stocks rose 5,000 tonnes, which was in line with market expectations, but underlined the strong rising trend in inventory levels.
"Stocks may well get up towards 300,000 tonnes total (from 266,000 on Tuesday) by the end of the slow summer period, and that could encourage good lending," a trader said.
Aluminium finished marginally weaker at $1,489 from $1,490 having hit a low of $1,482. Stocks rose 2,900 tonnes.
Prices were trapped in a downward price channel and needed to break above $1,510 to escape to the upside.
Nickel prices finished on a strong note, gaining $65 to $7,185 despite dipping to $7,070 at one stage.
Routine buying emerged during the afternoon session after an increase in stocks of 114 tonnes pulled values back earlier on.
Traders said further deliveries into the LME could be expected over the next few weeks and months as off-warrant metal was put on warrant.
Zinc failed to react to a sizeable stockdraw, with traders comfortable with overall inventories while demand was subdued.
Stocks fell 4,050 tonnes but prices edged back $2 to $1,031.
"At 8.5 weeks' (consumption) the current stocks ratio is an improvement on the 9.4 weeks' ruling at the end of 1995 but has some way to go still before a sustained rise is reflected in prices," said brokers Brandeis in a report.
Lead gained $3 to $824 while stocks rose 1,075 tonnes.
Gold closed in London at US$387.30/387.80.
CBOT wheat futures closed lower on diminished fears about frost damage to the Canadian wheat crop and on concern about prospects for sales of soft red winter wheat to Egypt.
Meteorologists cited a diminished possibility of frost next week in Canada's spring wheat areas.
The market was boosted Monday on concern about outlooks for freezing temperatures next week, the traders said.
Wheat closed two to five cents per bushel lower, with September down five at $4.54-1/2.
NYMEX crude and refined products futures closed lower on profit-taking Tuesday, amid expectations the latest weekly inventory report by the American Petroleum Institute would be disappointing for the gasoline market.
September crude oil fell 0.40 cents to $22.86 a barrel in its final NYMEX session while traders rolled over positions into the October contract which posted a similar drop of 0.36 cents. October closed at $22.11 a barrel.
Traders cited the the stable crude intermonth spread as bullish. "Tommorow there will be a bounce," said a trader of the energy complex generally.
CSCE world sugar futures settled slightly higher on fund buying after a dull and lightly-traded session.
October settled 0.09 cent a lb firmer at 11.81, having ranged from 11.87 to 11.70.
Last trades or bids for key Australian-interest commodities.
Previous close in brackets.
U.S.
Architects of the Israel-PLO peace accord said on Tuesday they would establish an "Oslo Club" to monitor implementation of deal.
"We have decided to set up the Oslo Club which will bring together Palestinians, representatives of the former Israeli government and Norwegian officials to monitor implementation of the deal," said Ahmed Korei, a Palestinian peacemaker.
The Israel-PLO Oslo peace accord, negotiated secretly in Norway three years ago, established the framework for interim Palestinian self-rule in the West Bank and Gaza Strip.
Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu on Tuesday accused members of the opposition of undermining the government's peace efforts by trying to make contacts with Arab leaders.
Netanyahu, who opposes the principle of trading occupied Arab land for peace, ousted his Labour party predecessor Shimon Peres in May elections.
"In the state of Israel there is only one government and only it is authorised to conduct negotiations or contacts with foreign officials," Netanyahu told reporters after a closed-door session of a parliamentary committee.
Architects of the Oslo accord held a celebration on Sunday near the southern tip Israel's sea of Galilee to mark the third anniversary of the secret initialling of the historic peace deal. Government officials boycotted the gathering.
French Riviera train conductors ended a 36-hour strike on Tuesday against growing crime which has badly disrupted traffic at the peak summer holiday period.
A trade union spokesman said the management of state railway company SNCF had responded to the protest by promising to increase staff and equip conductors with portable telephones to tighten security on routes regarded as dangerous.
Unionists say train conductors in southeast France are increasingly at risk from fare dodgers, pickpockets and thugs.
The strike forced SNCF to cancel five long distance trains between Marseille and Nice and 75 percent of regional traffic on Monday. High-speed trains ran normally.
Austrian cartonboard manufacturer Mayr-Melnhof Karton AG (MMK) on Tuesday reported a four percent dip in group pre-tax profit to 371 million schillings ($35.4 million) in the first six months of the year, coupled with an 18 percent slip in sales.
But the company said first half net profit soared 13 percent to 243 million schillings. It said it expected an overall improvement in earnings this year compared to 1995, adding it would reinstate a dividend payment for 1996.
"Although the second half-year is normally weaker than the first, the foundations have been laid for an improvement in results for the year as a whole compared to the previous year," MMK said in a statement released ahead of its news conference.
The company said the improvement in first half 1996 net profit was mainly due to the positive development in its key cartonboard division.
Operating profit in cartonboard rose 79 percent to 340 million schillings, while cash flow increased 74 percent to 429 million schillings.
"Waste paper prices were low and utilisation of capacities high," Mayr-Melnhof said. "The development of margins was satisfactory in spite of falling sales prices."
The company said the decline in sales to 5.29 billion schillings from 6.49 billion schillings in the year ago period was due to deteriorating sales prices in all its three divisions -- cartonboard, folding carton and waste paper -- and from a higher degree of integration between them.
"Intra-group sales are eliminated in the process of consolidation, thus reducing consolidated sales," it said.
For 1995, MMK reported a 17.8 percent rise in group pre-tax profit to 430 million schillings, but rattled investors by scrapping its dividend after a 14 schilling dividend in 1994.
"A dividend will be paid on the financial year 1996," MMK said without elaborating further.
Shares in UK mobile telephone operator Orange Plc rose on Tuesday after the company reported interim losses broadly in line with expectations.
The company edged two pence higher to 189p by 0714 GMT in pre-market trade, after it posted a first half pre-tax loss of 125.2 million stg.
"It's a good set of figures... some of the fears we've had in the past weren't justified," said ABN Amro Hoare Govett telecommunications analyst James Ross. He identified in particular a fall in the "churn" rate -- how many customers cease using Orange. This decreased to 17.6 percent in the year to June 30 from 18.1 percent in the year to end December.
"They've obviously got a control on that," said Mike Styles of Credit Lyonnais Laing.
Orange managing director Hans Snook said that the company's network covered over 90 percent of the country's population.
"We continue to meet our business plan expectations with strong growth year on year in Orange subscribers and revenues," said Snook in a statement accompanying the results.
Sales in the first half more than doubled to 256.5 million stg from 100 million stg.
NOTE: The company said its grain costs for Q4 1996 were $24 million more than the yr-ago quarter and $58 million higher for the fiscal year.
--New York Newsdesk 212-859-1610.
The Nairobi Stock Exchange 20-share index continued its downward trend on Tuesday with less demand for stocks, and share prices for most leading stocks lost value, brokers and bourse officials said.
The index fell 14.56 points to 3106.71. Turnover was 9.136 million shillings on 394,742 shares from 30.049 million shillings on 1,402,019 shares on Monday.
A bourse official said there was little demand for shares as most investors found the prices not right to deal in. He said stocks would only attract buyers if prices eased.
A floor dealer said the stocks that fell were mostly in the agricultural, commercial and industrial sectors.
Plantation company Brooke Bond lost 4.0 shillings to close at 173, Kakuzi eased to 91 from 91.50 but Rea Vipingo rose to 11.45 from 11.40 on 17,900 shares.
In commercials, CMC Holdings shed 4.0 shillings to close at 61, Express Kenya Ltd eased to 81.50 from 83 while Kenya Airways traded 55,636 shares at 10 shillings, eased to 9.50 but corrected to close at 9.95.
Among financials, National Bank of Kenya continued to dominate the market's trading with a total of 236,255 shares being dealt at 18.50, 17.50 and a close of 17.95 from Monday's close of 18 shillings.
Brokers said there was a lot of demand for the National Bank with local investors showing interest, but the state pension agency National Social Security Fund (NSSF) continued to be the main buyer for its shares.
NSSF already owns around 42 percent of National Bank. Economists say the pension agency is looking to obtain a majority stake in the bank ahead of plans that will make it totally independent of government by end of the year.
Elsewhere in industrials, British American Tobacco fell 1.0 to 69, Bamburi Cement Ltd eased to 29 from 29.25 while Total Kenya remained unchanged at 78 shillings.
--Nairobi Newsroom ++254-2 330-261.
SIMEX Nikkei futures recovered from an early decline to end slightly firmer on Tuesday, but dealers said the market would take its cue from Wall Street's reaction to the Federal Reserve policy-making meeting tonight.
The Fed is widely expected to leave U.S. interest rates unchanged, which should give a boost to the Dow, and consequently the Nikkei, dealers said.
After hitting a low of 21,000, the benchmark Nikkei 225 September contract ended five points off its high of 21,210 against a previous settlement at 21,190. Volume was slightly above the average seen in recent days at about 15,300 lots.
"A recovery from quite a big dip is always good, but this was nothing dramatic," said the dealer.
The fundamentals for the lira remain strong and active traders should sell marks and buy lira if the cross rate falls below 1014 lira, Goldman, Sachs and Co said on Tuesday.
"Breaks of 1014 should be followed by active players, whilst any move back to the 1038/1040 area represents an excellent opportunity for longer term players," Goldman said in its Weekly Analyst, dated August 20.
A break below 1000 lira would open up a target of at least 980 lira, Goldman said.
Goldman cited the "cheapness" of the lira, and declining inflation among the reasons the lira remains a "sound investment".
And they added: "We still look for a September ERM entry for the lira with a 975 to 1000.0 mid-point against the mark."
At 1700 EDT/2100 GMT on Wednesday, mark/lira was trading at 1019.75/0.25.
About 30 billion yen worth of three-month CDs was issued by late Tuesday morning, traders said.
A city bank trader said the issues of three-month CDs at such low levels were made possible due to receding fears of an imminent credit tightening.
"The low rate of the new issues indicates that there is a growing belief within the market that there won't be an interest rate rise in the next three months," the trader said.
About 110 billion yen worth of three-month CDs was issued at 0.62 percent, while 40 billion yen worth of three-month CDs was issued at 0.61 percent, a broker said.
The rates were down from Monday's 0.63 percent.
A man detained in a police cell in northern Japan committed suicide by stuffing toilet paper down his throat, police said on Tuesday.
The 45-year-old man, arrested for allegedly setting fire to his own shop, was found on Sunday in the police cell with five metres (5.5 yards) of toilet paper stuffed down his throat, said a spokesman for Toyohira police in Hokkaido, northern Japan.
"We tried pulling out the paper from his mouth, but he looked pretty suffocated already. He probably would have been dead in the cell if we had found him a few minutes later," the police spokesman said.
The man was taken to hospital but died on Monday.
Guards patrol the cells every 15 minutes, and the man was last seen squatting in the toilet in his cell, according to the spokesman.
"We can't leave the toilets fully open to view because of human rights considerations...nor can we leave the toilets without paper," the spokesman said.
Police said the man was drunk at the time of the arrest and said he had set the shop on fire because he was feeling irritated.
Fujisawa Pharmaceutical Co Ltd said on Tuesday that it has acquired the rights to market U.S. biotech firm Centocor Inc's heart drug, ReoPro, in Japan.
The drug, approved by the U.S. Food and Drug Administration in 1995, is used for treating stricture of the heart and acute cardiac infarction.
Fujisawa will join with Nippon Centocor KK, the U.S. firm's Japanese subsidiary, in the development of the drug in Japan, which is in the second phase of three-stage clinical trials, Fujisawa said in a statement.
The drug is expected to hit the Japanese market in the middle of 2000. Sales are expected to be 1.5 billion yen in the first year, and are likely to reach nine to 10 billion yen at their peak, a Fujisawa spokesman said.
The Trocadero entertainment complex in the heart of London's Piccadilly marked its relaunch on Tuesday after a 50 million pound ($77 million) redevelopment that it said was expected to triple revenues over five years.
"An estimated 55 million visitors a year pass by the Trocadero and some 20 million people come through the centre," Nick Leslau, chief executive of Trocadero Plc, told a news conference.
The challenge, he said, was to convert visitors into money-spending consumers.
Leslau said he expected the retail revenues to triple over the next five years, the time span in which he expects the centre to reach maturity.
He said Trocadero would seek to convert rental agreements into revenue-sharing deals as leases expire.
Trocadero and Japan's Sega together invested about $77 million in redesigning the centre -- shifting its focus from shopping to entertainment and giving it a flashy, high-tech look -- and installing a SegaWorld virtual reality centre due to open next month.
An Imax 3D cinema is to open in early 1997.
The complex's current entertainment and shopping tenants -- including cinemas, an amusement arcade and a Planet Hollywood restaurant as well as shops -- generate retail revenues of about 125 million pounds ($192 million) a year, Leslau said. Trocadero derives its revenues from the rental income it receives from these tenants.
It recently entered into a joint venture for a Marvel Mania themed restaurant to be built adjacent to the Trocadero. The Marvel Mania restaurant, based on characters from Marvel comics, is a joint venture with Robert Earl's Planet Hollywood and Ronald Perelman's Marvel Entertainment Group Inc.
Trocadero's current rental deals provide guaranteed income that is sufficient to cover the complex's service debt and overhead for the next 22 years, Leslau said.
Trocadero Plc was spun off from property management group Burford Holdings last November. Burford had acquired the Trocadero complex in September 1994 for 94 million pounds ($145 million). At that time the Trocadero was a shopping mall.
"The key to success at the Trocadero lay in its transformation from a shopping mall into a premier entertainment destination," Leslau added.
Burundi's new Tutsi military strongman Major Pierre Buyoya on Tuesday sacked the three most powerful military officers in his ethnically-divided country, his spokesman said.
Buyoya sacked the powerful army chief-of-staff and previous de facto head of state, Colonel Jean Bikomagu, and also fired the head of the gendarmerie, Colonel Pascal Simbanduko, and Colonel Gedeon Fyiroko, head of the military at the presidential palace.
All three officers were Tutsis and were replaced by Tutsis.
The army, dominated by the minority Tutsi tribe, is locked in a guerrilla war with Hutu rebels, in which aid workers say around 1,000 people are dying each month.
Presidential spokesman Jean-Luc Ndizeye said Buyoya, who seized power in a bloodless coup on July 25, appointed equally senior but little-known officers to the three powerful posts.
Lieutenant-Colonel Vincent Niyungeko was named as new chief-of-staff, Lieutenant-Colonel Georges Muhorako as chief-of-staff of the gendarmerie and Lieutenant-Colonel Alfred Ngurunziza as head of military at the presidential palace.
"With the new changes the president has the right to choose who he works with. It's not a question of competence or incompetence. It's just to show that President Buyoya has a free hand," Ndizeye added.
Analysts said the dismissals of the hardline officers may also have been designed to placate regional anger over the coup that ousted civilian Hutu President Sylvestre Ntibantunganya.
Burundi's neighbours have imposed an embargo on the country.
Ntibantunganya remains holed in the U.S. ambassador's residence in Bujumbura and his wife said last week that Buyoya had prevented him from leaving the country.
Regional countries, led by Tanzania, and including Rwanda, Kenya and Zaire, have cut air, land and water links with Burundi to try to force Buyoya to restore "constitutional order and legality" in the tea and coffee-growing nation.
They also want Buyoya, who first ruled Burundi between 1987 and 1983, to open talks with Hutu rebels led by former minister Leonard Nyangoma's National Council for the Defence of Democracy (CNDD).
Nyangoma, whose guerrillas are waging an increasingly successful war, has in recent weeks poured scorn on talks with Buyoya.
Buyoya has also said he would only talk to rebels who first laid down their arms.
Bikomagu and other unnamed senior military commanders were implicated in a U.N. report on an attempted coup in Burundi in October 1993 in which Burundi's first freely-elected president, Melchior Ndadaye, a Hutu, was murdered by Tutsi soldiers.
Western diplomats said Bikomagu played a central role not only in the 1993 failed coup attempt but also in the coup that brought Buyoya to power.
A helicopter carrying four people crashed into the IJsselmeer lake in the northern Netherlands on Tuesday, Dutch television reported.
First reports did not identify the type of helicopter or its operators but said one person was seriously injured. The helicopter crashed between the villages of Ketelhaven and Schokkerhaven, on the eastern side of the IJsselmeer.
The Dutch aviation authority and air traffic control authorities at Amsterdam's international Schiphol airport could not immediately confirm the crash.
Rescue teams were on the way to look for the missing passengers, Dutch television reported.
Mobil Australia Ltd said on Tuesday its 108,000 barrels-per-day Altona refinery in Melbourne was expected to be back at around 80 percent of normal output by Wednesday morning, following the repair of its cracking unit.
"The cracker is being tested at moment and we're expecting on spec product to be produced tomorrow ... morning," a Mobil spokeswoman told Reuters.
The refinery, which is currently running at 60 percent, would remain at sub-peak output until next week while repairs were carried out to one of its three distillation units, the Mobil spokeswoman said.
She said the refinery had switched to 100 percent Gippsland crude input from its usual practice of supplementing Gippsland crude input with imports.
The spokeswoman said the cargo had been ordered for the refinery two months ago but she was unable to elaborate on the cargo's size or to whom it was sold.
She also could not comment on current total daily crude oil input levels.
Gippsland crude accounts for about half of the refinery's normal crude supplies.
A Mobil source said Monday the refinery, which has been at partial production since August 13, took about 11 megalitres a day of Gippsland crude oil at normal operating levels.
Shell Australia Ltd has reduced its crude oil intake due to a strike over work practices which has reduced production at its Geelong refinery and stopped distribution from its shipping and Lara LPG terminals.
A Shell spokesman was not immediately available for comment.
Taiwan Vice President Lien Chan emerged in Kiev on Tuesday, two days after vanishing on a mysterious European mission, raising the prospect of diplomatic sparks between Ukraine and communist China.
Taiwan Television showed Lien with his wife and other Taiwan and Ukraine officials posing at the University of Kiev, where the announcer said Lien had received an honorary degree.
State-funded television said Lien's secretive visit had been arranged by the university, indicating it was unofficial, but said Lien had met Ukraine officials and was awaiting a meeting with President Leonid Kuchma.
A former Soviet republic, Ukraine recognises the communist government in Beijing -- not Taiwan's exiled Republic of China -- but has made clear its desire for improved relations with Taiwan and its powerful "Asian dragon" export economy.
Ukraine nonetheless views China as a key trading partner, with annual two-way trade of almost $1 billion.
China regards nationalist-ruled Taiwan as a rebel province ineligible for foreign ties and has sought to isolate it diplomatically since a civil war separated them in 1949.
Lien's presence in Ukraine virtually guarantees an angry response from Beijing, which spurns states that recognise Taipei and fumes even at diplomatic partners that entertain Taiwan's leaders.
A spokeswoman for Ukraine's foreign ministry, interviewed by Taiwan Television, said a Lien-Kuchma meeting was possible.
"So far there is no such meeting in the plan, but it may take place absolutely unexpectedly," the spokeswoman said.
Ukraine Foreign Minister Hennady Udovenko said Kiev considered Taiwan an "integral part of continental China" and had no information on Lien's visit.
Officials of Ukraine's Crimean peninsula said Lien's "unofficial stopover" included a trip to the picturesque Black Sea resort of Yalta, contradicting earlier assertions from Kiev officials that Lien was not in the country.
Kuchma was due back in Kiev on Tuesday after a holiday in Crimea, but officials said he did not meet Lien, a millionaire who doubles as Taiwan's premier or cabinet chief.
Crimean spokesman Oleg Khomenok told reporters in Simferopol that Lien had met the deputy prime minister, the vice-speaker of the local parliament and a parliamentary faction leader in the pro-Russian peninsula.
The nature of Lien's talks was not disclosed.
In mid-1995, a furious China downgraded its U.S. ties after Washington let Taiwan President Lee Teng-hui make a private visit and assailed Austria and the Czech Republic for allowing a similar visit by Lien.
Taiwan Foreign Minister John Chang maintained Taipei's pall of official silence, saying to disclose Lien's travels could compromise further activities still being planned but vowing to press ahead with Taiwan's drive to win diplomatic allies.
"We can only confirm vice-president Lien is currently in Europe for a private visit...," Chang told reporters.
"We have to realise our difficult situation in the international community. We will not give up any effort to expand our international living space," Chang said.
The number of states recognising Taiwan fell by one on Monday to 30 as impoverished Niger, which split with Beijing to recognise Taipei in 1992, switched back to Beijing.
In the past week, President Lee has warned that Taiwan was becoming too dependent on China's economy and assailed what he called Beijing's irrational drive to isolate the island.
Certificated cotton stocks deliverable against New York Cotton Exchange's No. 2 cotton futures contract as of Aug 19 totaled 65,570 bales, up marginally from 65,371 bales the previous session.
There were 199 bales issued, no decertification orders, no cancellations, and no bales awaiting review.
-- Hambrecht & Quist initiated coverage of M-Systems Flash Disk Pioneers Ltd with a buy rating, according to a market source.
-- shares rose 1/4 to 8-7/8.
As if to foil recent foreign interest in Caracas stocks, Venezuelan corporate results are suffering a bout of inflation-adjusted accounting -- and its effects have sent company results through Alice's looking-glass.
What does it mean, for example, when a near-bankrupt company suddenly reports a forty-six fold increase in profits?
"Don't forget, Rembrandt, Picasso and Van Gogh didn't create their masterpieces by painting by numbers," Dalmady cautioned in a recent market commentary.
Accountants bounce the numbers, writing-up and writing-down. Debt-holders report bulging profits: the past 12 months of 100 percent inflation reduces the real value of debt, allowing a "monetary gain" to pass from the balance sheet to the profit and loss statement.
"There's no really good way to view the stats," said Frank Amador of CNI financial consultants who notes that inflation- adjusted accounting has its uses when inflation, interest rates and foreign exchange rates are moving in the same direction.
But over the past year in Venezuela the three components uncoupled as real interest rates turned negative while inflation soared and currency controls left the exchange rate fixed.
"Until inflation comes down, the numbers are going to remain fairly unenlightening," said a New York-based investor. Monthly inflation is decelerating, but still running at a five percent monthly clip.
"The inflation and devaluation that impacted so negatively at the close of our fiscal year... have now produced favorable results," explained the company in a press release.
Meanwhile, market-leading stock Electricidad de Caracas -- currently locked in battle with the Ministry of Energy and Mines over delayed increases in electricity rates -- posted a non-adjusted one billion bolivar first half loss at the beginning of August.
"It does look strange," admitted an Electricidad spokesperson. "But we do have a serious cash flow problem," she added, noting that the company made an inflation-adjusted ten billion bolivar operating loss.
And if company results are not what they seem, that's doubly true for Banks, analysts say. "Their recent results have had little to do with core businesses," said Dalmady.
Most notably, profits have bulged among those that went long on dollars before the bolivar was devalued forty percent on April 22.
Two state-owned banks, Consolidado and Venezuela, both slated for re-privatization before the end of the year, owed 93 percent and 68 percent of their profits to extraordinary exchange gains, according to Dalmady.
The majority of remaining profits have derived from investments in Central Bank paper, called TEMs, rather than lending or project finance.
"I think there'll be some very surprised investors when monthly inflation falls to one or two percent," said Dalmady who currently favors only one benchmark ratios, price to sales, as an indicator of a business's market capitalization compared to its size.
"When the dust settles you're going to hear people exclaim: My God, that company's making money! And of course the flipside: that one's losing!"
Shanghai B shares ended up in slow trading on Tuesday on bargain-hunting, with investors focussing on interim results, brokers said.
The index ended up 0.053 points or 0.10 percent to 51.813 points, on volume of 8.4 million shares worth $3.4 million. Of 41 B shares, 29 traded, with 13 up, six flat and 10 down.
Brokers said that short-term market sentiment was still cautious despite the rise, with most firms having not published their interim results. The deadline for publication is the end of August.
"The anxiety over interim results prevents investors from actively building positions," one broker said. "But the index will rise after all the results are published."
Shanghai Erfangji was the star, rising $0.006 or 5.88 percent to $0.108, on volume of 124,000 shares.
Heilongjiang Electric Power traded the most on institutional buying, up $0.010 or 2.80 percent to $0.366, on volume of 1.6 million shares.
Shanghai A shares fell on poor results announced by most firms, brokers said.
But further losses will be limited by improved fundamentals such as falling inflation and an expected cut in bank interest rates, brokers said.
The A share index closed down 14.167 points or 1.62 percent to 860.453 points, on volume of 250.1 million shares worth 2.1 billion yuan.
The SSE 30 index fell 52.196 points or 2.38 percent to 2139.740 points.
China Jialing Industry performed the worst after posting lower-than-expected interim results, plunging 1.68 yuan or 14.55 percent to 10.27 yuan, on volume of 3.5 million shares.
Media group Australian Provincial Newspapers Ltd said on Tuesday that it had identified a number of expansion opportunities in south-east Asia.
Chairman Liam Healey said the group continued to seek complementary acquisitions that would enhance shareholder value, with its mobile advertising division Buspak expanding.
Healey said the move into transit and outdoor advertising through Buspak had been very successful with the division exceeding forecasts with its A$19.8 million contribution to sales and A$4.7 million contribution to earnings before interest and tax (EBIT).
Publishing sales revenue was reported to have increased by five percent to A$100.6 million although EBIT for regional newspapers was marginally lower than the previous year.
The chairman said the company's radio interests through its stake in the Australian Radio Network (ARN) continued to produce excellent results, producing growth in EBIT of over 30 percent.
Healey said over the year APN's radio interests had increased with its one third stake in the acquisition of Radio New Zealand Commercial for NZ$89 million and ARN's acquisition of two Adelaide radio stations for A$29 million.
The Adelaide purchase of 5AD-FM and 5DN-AM was seen making early contributions to earnings.
APN is about 49 percent owned by interests of Irish businessman Tony O'Reilly.
APN shares closed a cent higher at A$2.43 on turnover of 328,830 shares.
Snap-on Inc said Tuesday its Snap-on Tools Co unit agreed with Penske Auto Centers Inc to provide car care and maintenance equipment for more than 800 Penske automotive service centers.
The centers are located in Kmart Corp store locations across the country.
"Our goal is to deliver a complete solution to the vehicle service industry," Branko Beronja, senior vice president, said in a statement. "This agreement demonstrates our ability to offer a full range of diagnostic, under-car and under-hood service equipment, as well as training, service and product support to the automotive service business owner."
China's top motorcycle maker on Tuesday announced disappointing first-half results, blaming weak sales, fakes and ferocious competition.
China Jialing Industrial Group reported first-half net profit of 83.064 million yuan ($10 million), down from 149.368 million in the same 1995 period, on turnover of 1.912 billion yuan, down from 2.237 billion.
In a statement the company blamed a weak market, tight credit which increased the costs of funds, a chaotic market with fakes and unfair competition and price-cutting.
Analysts said supply, boosted by fakes and smuggled cycles, was in excess of domestic demand.
Official figures published on Sunday show that China's motorcycle output in the first half was 4.25 million units, up 22 percent on the same 1995 period, with sales of only 3.8 million, up 12 percent.
By the end of June, national stocks had reached 680,000, up 200 percent from a year earlier, and equivalent to one month's production, the figures showed.
In the first half of 1996, Jialing produced 605,623 motorcycles, ranking first in China, the company said.
An analyst with a foreign brokerage said that because of the intense competition Jialing and other major makers had cut prices in both January and April, which had hurt profits.
"Production in China has outstripped demand," he said. "The government wants to consolidate the industry into a few large conglomerates but local governments do not agree, preferring to protecting their own small-scale manufacturers."
"Another factor is widespread smuggling of motorcycles, especially of larger models, in coastal areas and production of fake Jialings," he said. "The market is chaotic and hard for the government to control. Motorcycles are seen as profitable."
While the market potential in rural areas remains large, many major Chinese cities which already suffer from traffic congestion restricting the number of motorcycles, limiting demand.
The company said another factor to hit its earnings this year was the high income tax rate of 33 percent that it had to pay when many of its competitors were paying a lower rate.
"Many of them pay just 15 percent," said a Jialing spokeswoman by telephone from its headquarters in the southwest city of Chongqing. "Our competitors get the lower rate from local governments or from being in special economic zones."
"We have repeatedly asked the central government for a tax reduction but have had no reply so far," she said.
The spokeswoman said it was hard for the government to control the sale and volume of fakes, which include many products and not only motorcycles. "Consumers, companies and the government must work together to solve this problem and it cannot be settled in a short time," she said.
She said sales would pick up in the second half of 1996, with the first part of the year traditionally being a dull season, but declined to give full-year forecasts.
Legacy Software Inc said it acquired On the Toes of Giants Inc in a stock transaction.
It said terms of the deal will be finalized before the deal is set to close on Aug 30.
PCM Precast Plc said on Tuesday it will make a rights issue of 16.8 million new shares to raise capital to 210 million baht.
The ready-made concrete producer said in a filing to the Stock Exchange of Thailand that shareholders could buy four new shares for one old share at 12.50 baht apiece.
Proceeds will be used to expand a new production line and repay outstanding debts, the company said.
Hussey Copper Ltd said it lowered its contained copper price to 107 cents a lb Tuesday, down 2.00 cents, effective from August 20 shipments.
Australian Prime Minister John Howard said on Wednesday he was in no hurry for a fresh election.
"I'm in no hurry to have an election," Howard told radio 2GB.
Australia's constitution allows a government to call an election if parliament blocks legislation twice within three months.
Howard's Liberal-National government does not have a majority in the 76-seat upper house, the Senate, and needs the support of at least two non-government senators to pass legislation.
An election called because of blocked legislation allows a joint sitting of both houses after the polls.
Political analysts believe Howard would win an early election with a lower-house majority big enough to guarantee passage of his reforms through a joint sitting.
A helicopter carrying three people crashed into the IJsselmeer lake in the northern Netherlands at 1350 GMT, Dutch police said.
The helicopter was carrying two civil servants from the Dutch waterways authority and crashed on Tuesday between the villages of Ketelhaven and Schokkerhaven, on the eastern side of the IJsselmeer, a police spokesman said.
"At 15:50 (local time) a helicopter crashed into the IJsselmeer. The pilot was seriously injured and the other two people on board less so," he said.
"The passengers were on a working visit for the waterways authority," the spokesman added.
A British electricity consumer watchdog called for more competition in the generation market on Tuesday and said that the country's biggest generator, National Power, should be broken up.
The Chairmen's Group of independent consumer watchdog the Electricity Consumers' Committee also told a news conference that it would be "appalled" if competition in the electricity supply market were delayed beyond the April 1, 1998, deadline.
Ken Prior, acting group chairman, said he was very concerned that the Pool wholesale electricity market was heavily dominated by National Power and its smaller peer PowerGen. Publishing the group's second annual report, Prior said the generators had made cost savings of about 40 percent but consumers had felt none of the benefits.
"We want competition in generation...We believe National Power...should be broken up," Prior said, adding that the group wants to see the pool "properly representative" of market participants.
The group said it had made a number of recommendations to industry regulator Stephen Littlechild to boost competition, including calling for an independent testing inspectorate to test plant availability. The group also wants to remove payments to plant that is not being used.
Prior said there was no incentive currently to bring down prices, because electricity suppliers could pass on higher generation costs to customers.
"The Pool governance needs changing to ensure that wider interests are represented," the group said, adding that a Monopolies and Mergers Commission inquiry may be necessary.
Meanwhile, the Chairmen's Group is focussing on 1998 and lobbying to help ensure that 25 million consumers will be able to shop around for electricity.
But although Eastern said computer systems would be in place to allow customers a free choice of supplier, the consumer watchdog accused some companies of dragging their feet over preparations for 1998.
The Chairmen's Group, which represents each of the 14 regions in England, Wales and Scotland that have privatised electricity suppliers, said it wanted to indentify the laggards.
But he added: "In terms of preparation (for 1998), there seems to be a six month gap between the leaders and laggards."
The chairmen's group wants to finger the laggards with a questionnaire it has prepared. It will then meet Littlechild in September to discuss how to ensure competition stays on track.
Prior said he believed it would be new market entrants, such as supermarkets, that would lead the way in a free electricity supply market. "It is the new entrants we think that will drive it," he said.
  Tele Comm Inc A   3,559,000	 15 7/8     up     1/8.
Here are the highlights of stories in the Danish press on Tuesday. Reuters has not verified these stories and does not vouch for their accuracy.
--- The issue of changing the early retirement system has split the Danish government which cannot agree on a plan to cut benefits for those who have capital savings.
--- Chinese authorities have agreed to meet Danish experts to discuss democratic elections and legal principles during foreign minister Niels Helveg Petersen's visit to China in September.
--- Medicine prices will rise next year as part of the new government budget for 1997 which will introduce cuts to medicine subsidies totalling 80-100 million crowns.
--- Scandinavian Airlines System (SAS) will not have to pay compensation of 150 million crowns to Swissair as had been believed, because the two sides agreed to end their partnership within the Quality Alliance peacefully.
--- Denmark is the only country to honour an OECD agreement on not subsidising shipyards, but it will be still harder for the shipyards to win orders without breaking the present agreement.
Danish dairy group MD Foods has not had the expected success with their yoghurt product Gaio in Great Britain. The product was launched in June last year.
NOTE - Taki Chemical Co Ltd is a fertiliser maker.
A top official in Mexico's Foreign Ministry said on Monday that the country would receive credits from the Japanese government for $940 million during a visit starting Tuesday by Prime Minister Ryutaro Hashimoto.
Juan Rebolledo Gout, an undersecretary in the Foreign Ministry, told reporters the credits would be signed by Mexican and Japanese officials on Wednesday, and would support ecological projects, small and medium-sized businesses and exporters in Mexico.
He did not detail how much would be offered for each sector or explain the terms of the loans.
A Foreign Ministry spokeswoman said the export credits would be signed on the Mexican side by Enrique Vilatela, head of the state trade development bank Bancomext.
The credit to small- and medium-sized businesses would be channeled via state development bank Nafin.
Hashimoto two-day visit to Mexic will kick off a five-nation, 10-day tour of Latin America that he hopes will open a new trade front for Japanese industry in the region.
Tokyo has pumped nearly $60 million into the region in the past 14 years.
Sussex cricketer Ed Giddins was suspended from playing any match under the jurisdiction of the Test and County Cricket Board until April 1, 1998, after a drugs hearing on Tuesday.
The paceman, who toured Pakistan with England A last winter, tested positive for an illegal substance after a county match against Kent in May.
NOTE: Net loss in the second quarter 1996 was due to a change in the allowance for the estimated phase-out and losses from discontinued operations relating to an increase in the allowance for the company's remaining remediation subsidiary.
Danish biotech company Neurosearch gained 3.2 percent on the Copenhagen bourse on Tuesday after publishing a mixed first-half report.
At 1130 GMT the share -- which made its bourse debut at 235 crowns in June -- stood at 239.5, up 7.5 from Monday's close.
The firm announced first-half profits of 18 million crowns, compared to an 11.2 million crown loss in the same period last year, but added that the result was buoyed by one-off payments and that it expected a full year result similar to 1995's 4.5 million crowns. --Steve Weizman, Copenhagen newsroom +45 33969650.
Standard & Poor's said on Tuesday it assigned its A long-term foreign currency and A1 short-term issuer credit ratings to the City of Ostrava in the Czech Republic.
The outlook is stable and reflects that of the Czech Republic, S&P said in a statement.
"The ratings balance the city's strong financial performance and low debt burden with the multiple challenges of restructuring and diversifying its local industrial base, and of addressing major infrastructure needs," the agency said.
"Strong operating balances averaging 30 percent of operating revenues over the past four years reflect prudent fiscal management, good expenditure controls and rapid growth in local tax revenues."
Ostrava with 329,000 inhabitants is the third largest city in the Czech Republic. Its economy in terms of output and employment continues to be dominated by heavy industry, particularly steel and heavy machine production.
Since the implementation of a new fiscal system in the early 1990s, which gave municipalities greater autonomy and own source revenues, Ostrava's financial performance has been strong, S&P said.
Although Ostrava will be challenged by further industrial restructuring and decreasing state subsidies, financial performance is expected to be strong, driven by good tax revenues and prudent fiscal management, S&P said.
"Additionally, the city's high self-financing level should enable future capital spending to be carried out without significant debt accumulation," it said.
Former All Blacks centre Va'aiga Tuigamala is returning to rugby union.
He has signed for English division one club Wasps.
The powerful 26-year-old, who switched codes to join English rugby league champions Wigan in January 1994, is the latest of a number of players to combine the game's two codes.
He is due to join the London club next month after the rugby league season has finished and will then re-join Wigan early next year.
"At 26, he's no old man coming to make a bit of money. He is here to play sensible and very serious rugby union," Wasps director of rugby Nigel Melville said.
Sprint Corp. Tuesday announced plans to offer Internet access to consumers, jumping into the market to help millions of homes go online after similar moves by rivals AT&T Corp. and MCI Communications Corp.
Kansas City, Mo.-based Sprint, which has operated a big chunk of the Internet for American businesses since 1992, said it would offer the service for free to 200,000 of its existing telephone customers until it is introduced widely in the fall.
After that, consumers will be able to choose a flat rate of $19.95 a month for unlimited access, or $1.50 an hour with no minimum or maximum usage requirement, the nation's third-largest long-distance company said.
"A key goal of Sprint has been to make its comprehensive Internet capabilities directly available to the American public," said Robba Benjamin, president of Sprint's Multimedia Group.
"Most people who have used an online service in the last 10 years have used a Sprint network. They will be able to access this powerful network directly for the first time this fall," Benjamin said in a statement.
Sprint said the service, dubbed Sprint Internet Passport, will provide around-the-clock access to the network with a local phone call in 212 cities at first, which will rise to more than 300 by year-end.
The offering compares with the services rolled out by AT&T and MCI, as well as regional Bell operating companies, earlier this year.
AT&T's entry into the market early this year, which included some free access time, sparked a flurry of competition that sent shockwaves through the consumer Internet access business.
In 1992, Sprint became the first long-distance company to offer commercial Internet service, and now offers access to more than 1,000 Internet service providers and to a host of other businesses. Sprint also provides on-line access for most major proprietary online services.
Sprint has $12.8 billion in annual revenues and serves more than 15 million business and residential customers.
It said its offerings would also include Netscape Navigator, a rebate certificate for a high-speed modem, access speeds of up to 14.4 and 28.8 kilobits per second, a dedicated Web site with e-mail, news, directory and search services, and technical support online or through a toll-free 800 number.
Credit card billing will be offered.
Following are some of the leading stories in the Swedish papers this morning. Reuters has not verified these stories and does not vouch for their accuracy.
- Swedish insurance giant Skandia says it is losing ground on the Swedish life insurance market because of a recent increase in competition from banks.
- The deregulation of domestic flights in Sweden has been successful but has not led to lower prices for customers, according to a Swedish survey. But the survey said SAS had lost over one billion crowns on the domestic service since 1992.
- Over 50 percent of Swedes are against joining the European Monetary Union, according to a Swedish polling group.
- Cheating is becoming a way of life in Sweden, the Swedish daily says. The paper said Swedes take in over 11 billion crowns in black market income each year and over eight billion in benefits.
- Workers in Swedish industry are increasingly working longer hours as work hours have risen by 12 percent between April 1995 and April 1996, according to Statistics Sweden.
- Sweden is to relax its labour laws by giving employers greater flexibility in employing people.
- Swedish stockbrokers are furious at plans by the Stockholm Stock Exchange to allow institutional investors and major traders to buy and sell shares directly via computer link-ups starting in September.
- The Chilean Air Force is considering buying Jas 39 Gripen Fighters, produced by Saab Military Aircraft.
New York State, which had hoped that debt-ridden Utica, would solve its own problems, on Tuesday stepped in, signalling it would buy about $2 million of notes the city was struggling to sell.
An industry source, who spoke on condition of anonymity, said "(It) will probably end up purchasing a moderate amount -- $2 million."
A spokesman for the comptroller said only: "Discussions are still ongoing."
Lyngby won 2-0 on aggregate.
Chornomorets won 4-2 on aggregate.
Aggregate score 3-3. Spartak qualified on away goals rule.
Rapid Bucharest qualified 2-0 on aggregate.
Aberdeen won 5-4 on aggregate.
Attendance: 3,159.
Aggregate score 4-4. Barry won 4-2 on penalties after extra time.
Snap-on Inc. said Tuesday its Snap-on Tools Co. unit will provide car care and maintenance equipment for more than 800 Penske Auto Centres Inc., which are located in Kmart Corp. stores across the country.
The value of the deal was not disclosed.
Last October, Penske acquired Kmart's automotive service centres for $112 million. The nation's second-largest retailer subleased the space of the auto centres to Penske, which is owned by the transporation magnate Roger Penske.
PT Telkom traded at $27.825 and London at 0832 GMT on Tuesday. It recorded the day's low of $27.725 and the day's high of $27.825. Volume was 35,500.
Its previous close on Monday $27. One ADS represents 20 ordinary shares -- Jakarta newsroom (Tel: 6221-3846364).
Bankrupt online service Europe Online SA logged off for good on Tuesday after last-ditch talks with Deutsche Telekom AG and others to keep the Luxembourg-based operation running failed.
"Europe Online has ceased to operate. No agreement was reached by a deadline this morning, so we had to close it down," Albert Wildgen, one of Europe Online's liquidators, told Reuters. He declined to give further details.
Subscribers attempting to connect to the service, which embattled Europe Online had managed to keep going up to the end, found a message saying it could not be accessed.
With about 25,000 subscribers altogether, multilingual Europe Online had national services in Germany, Britain and Luxembourg, as well as an international service in English, which included news, weather, travel, sports and entertainment.
The company suffered a major financial blow in July when its biggest single shareholder, German publisher Burda Holding GmbH, said it was pulling the plug on further funding. Other shareholders included AT&T Corp.
Desperate attempts followed to find new investors or shareholders, including negotiations with rival U.S. online company CompuServe Inc. and Germany's telecommunications firm Deutsche Telekom.
No deal was reached, and the company was declared bankrupt Aug. 2.
A legal source close to the liquidation, who asked not to be identified, said Deutsche Telekom wants to go international and was looking at Europe Online as a way of achieving that, but decided late last week against salvaging it.
Similar talks continued with two other, unidentified parties, but these also failed, the source said.
"Europe Online broke down at an early stage of its development -- it had brilliant ideas, but not enough substance (for Deutsche Telekom)," he added. Deutsche Telekom's own successful T-Online service has over a million German customers.
Liquidators said all that was left now was to sell off the individual assets of the company. They said that at the time of its bankruptcy, Europe Online had debts of about $40 million, of which about $30 million was in the form of loans fromshareholders.
Besides AT&T and Burda, other shareholders included Britain's Pearson Plc, and Luxembourg's Banque et Caisse d'Epargne de l'Etat (BCEE) and Societe Nationale de Credit et d'Investissement (SNCI).
Despite its potential for growth in a burgeoning Internet market, Europe Online was plagued by shareholder disagreements over strategy since its formation in 1994 as a European-language alternative to U.S. services.
Burda, which had at times provided as much as 50 percent of the venture's operating funds, had been pressing the company to change its management structure to streamline decision-making before it finally decided to stop further funding to concentrate on its own German Internet business.
Before Europe Online could launch in December 1995, French Lagardere Groupe's Matra-Hachette Multimedia withdrew. Axel-Springer Verlag of Germany cancelled a planned investment and Pearson lowered its stake.
The operation only started charging for its services in March. Europe Online had expected to be profitable within four years.
NOTE - Full name of German chemicals and energy group is VIAG AG.
Aborigines burnt an Australian flag during an anti-budget rally in front of parliament house on Tuesday and clashed with police as Treasurer Peter Costello assured Australians his first budget at 0930 GMT would be fair.
Hundreds of other Aborigines staged rallies in Brisbane and Adelaide against already announced cuts to indigenous funding in the 1996/97 budget.
"Everyone, if you want to come and stamp on the white law, and the white flag, stamp on the ashes like they stamped on ours," said an Aborigine as the Australian flag burned.
The aboriginal protest, which attracted about 1,000 people, was rowdy, with chanting, didgeridoo playing and rhythm sticks. At one stage Aborigines tried to enter the nearby old parliament house, but were repelled by police in riot gear.
About 150 Aborigines attacked police with bricks, bottles and stakes during a 20-minute confrontation at the old parliament house. One policewoman was repeatedly kicked and has been taken to hospital in a serious condition, a police spokeswoman said.
On Monday, an anti-government rally of 15,000 unionists, Aborigines, students and welfare groups in front of Canberra's parliament ended in a riot, as hundreds of protesters stormed into the parliament's foyer.
Police wearing riot gear took two hours to control the riot.
"All we want is justice in our own country," aboriginal activist Charles Perkins told Tuesday's rally.
"We don't want budget cuts -- it's hard enough as it is," said Perkins, standing in front of a map of Australia painted with the aboriginal flag and the words: "Sovereignty never ceded". "The money that Australia has comes from aboriginal land. Give us a fair go," he said.
Aborigines, the most disadvantaged group in Australian society, have labelled "racist" A$400 million (US$312 million) in indigenous spending cuts over the next four years.
Deputy chair of the peak Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander Commission, Ray Robinson, told Tuesday's rally that reconciliation between white and black Australia was dead.
"Forget about reconciliation that's finished," he said.
"They say we must continue on with the reconciliation. Do you stab someone in the guts with a knife and while they are dying, say we want to be friends? It doesn't happen that way."
The five-month-old Liberal-National government was to announce its budget to June 30, 1997 at 0930 GMT. The budget will be its first and the first for a conservative Australian government in 14 years.
"It's going to be a fair budget, and we are looking forward to putting in place the measures that will help families and small businesses and get Australia moving," treasurer Costello told reporters on Tuesday morning.
The government has promised to cut A$4.0 billion from its maiden budget in a tough fiscal programme aimed at achieving a budget surplus within three years. The budget deficit for 1995/96 was A$10.3 billion.
Financial markets are concerned about Australia's chronic national savings and external debt problems and are counting on Costello slashing the budget deficit, hopefully by more than the forecast A$4.0 billion.
Roda JC Kerkrade 1 (Roelofsen 88th minute penalty) Feyenoord Rotterdam 1 (Van Wonderen 82nd).
Halftime 0-0.
Attendance 10,000.
Germany's Bundesbank is likely to lower its main money market interest rate this week, finally following through on a promise made in April to cut the rate when conditions allowed, economists said on Tuesday.
They said a marked slowdown in the headline growth rate for M3 money supply in July, combined with low inflation and an uneasy economic upturn, meant that the climate was now right for a cut of up to 10-20 basis points in the repo rate.
In a Reuter poll of 10 economists, eight believed a small cut in the 3.30 percent rate was on the cards when the central bank council meets on Thursday after a four-week summer break.
"An interest rate cut is appropriate. The M3 figures were in line with expectations and would not block a repo easing," said Norbert Braems, senior economist at BZW in Frankfurt.
The Bundesbank said today annualised M3 money supply growth dropped to 8.6 percent in July from 9.6 percent in June.
Inflation has been running at about 1.5 percent for several months and there is no fear of it gaining pace any time soon.
Although July's M3 growth was still above a seven percent target ceiling, analysts said the figure was encouraging as it meant the central bank could reach its goal by the year-end.
Signs of a slowdown in M3 were a stated condition for the Bundesbank to lower the repo rate, the rate at which central bank funds are made available to German banks.
The rate has been held at 3.30 percent since February, even though the central bank lowered official discount and Lombard rates -- the floor and ceiling for money market rates -- to 2.50 and 4.50 percent respectively in April.
Ulrich Beckmann at DB Research responded warmly to the M3 data. "It was at the lower end of our expectation, which was 8.6 to 9.1 percent," he said.
"It is now very clear that we have a very good chance to reach the Bundesbank target zone (of four to seven percent growth for 1996). I think there is a very good chance that we will see a cut in the repo rate," he added.
Uwe Angenendt, economist at BHF-Bank in Frankfurt, agreed. "Monetary expansion has slowed considerably. This is a very good sign for the Bundesbank on Thursday. I expect a repo rate cut of 10 to 20 basis points."
But economists said the final decision could depend on consumer confidence data from the respected Ifo institute, due on Wednesday. Economists expect the business climate index to show at best a small improvement in July.
"M3 will help to argue for cut. But tomorrow's Ifo figures will be more influential as far as a repo cut is concerned," said Ros Lifton at Daiwa Europe in London.
Analysts expect the index to climb slightly to around 91.0, after hitting a three-month low at 90.4 in June.
Although the Bundesbank does not follow an anti-cyclical policy -- lowering rates at any sign of economic weakness -- the current low-inflation environment leaves the Bundesbank fairly free to use its policy to help the economic recovery.
It often refers to Ifo data in its reports.
"The Bundesbank will not have any better arguments for easing rates in future than on Thursday," said Norbert Meissner at Caisse des Depots et Consignations in Frankfurt.
"The inflationary environment is good and if the Bundesbank wants to help the economy it had better act now."
But a minority of economists, possibly wary that the central bank appeared four weeks ago to prepare markets for a repo cut, but then failed to deliver the goods, said they had now given up expecting a further easing at all this cycle.
Armin Kayser at SBC Warburg said he was also extremely sceptical there would be any economic impact from such a move.
"A cut by a few basis points will not stimulate the economy and it may be that the economy doesn't even need it," he said.
Rhode Island General Treasurer Nancy Mayer said on Tuesday she finds issuing tax- free commercial paper has allowed the fiscally challenged state to plan its cash flows and save an extra $500,000.
"We started with tax-free commercial paper this year and it certainly allows us to plan our cash flows much more carefully," Mayer said in a State House interview. "In the past, we issued large amounts of TANs (tax anticipation notes) whether we needed all the money or not.
"These we can issue as needed and that's very advantageous when interest rates are falling," Mayer said, speaking even as the Federal Open Market Committee met in Washington.
The first $38 million worth of Rhode Island tax-free commercial paper was brought to market last month and sold for 3.55 percent. A few weeks earlier, the state had done a $70 million issue of TANs which carried a 3.875 percent rate.
Goldman, Sachs & Co was senior manager on both deals. "We estimate that the tax-free commercial paper will net us savings of $560,000 over the next year," said Mayer's spokesman Steven Klamkin.
The Legislature has authorized Mayer to issue up to $140 million in the tax-free commerical instrument.
The fourth tropical storm of the Atlantic hurricane season formed in the northwest Caribbean on Monday and seemed likely to continue strengthening as it headed toward the Yucatan peninsula, the U.S. National Hurricane Centre said.
At 11 p.m. EDT (0300 GMT), the centre of Tropical Storm Dolly was near latitude 18.7 north, longitude 85.0 west, about 175 miles (280 km) southeast of Cozumel, Mexico, and was moving west-northwest near 14 mph (23 kmh).
Maximum sustained winds were near 50 mph (80 kmh) and further strengthening was likely, forecasters said.
A tropical storm warning, alerting residents to imminent storm conditions, was posted for parts of Mexico's Yucatan Peninsula and the northern coast of Belize.
A tropical storm watch was in effect for far-western Cuba, including the Isle of Youth. Forecasters said Dolly's expected track would take it onshore in the warning area on Tuesday.
The storm was likely to move toward Mexico's border with Texas later this week, forecasters said.
Rainfall totals of five to 10 inches (12.5-25 cm) were expected along the depression's path.
Tropical storms become hurricanes when winds reach 74 mph (119 kmh).
Sunny, warm weather allowed Manitoba cereals and oilseeds to progress well in the week ended August 19 but fusarium head blight was cited in many wheat stands, the weekly Manitoba Agriculture report said.
Northwest Manitoba - Sunday evening thunderstorms hit the area with three to four inches of rain, with accompanying high winds causing many crops to lodge. Insects were minimally reported, with only some reports of aphids in wheat fields.
Winter wheat harvest in Central District was nearly complete with yields averaging 65-70 bushels per acre. Swathing of canola has started, with yields expected to be average to slightly above average. Aphids continue to be a problem for cereals and flax. Monitoring and selected spraying for Bertha armyworm in the district continued.
Eastern Manitoba - Combining and swathing has just begun, with average yields reported. Fusarium was present in various degrees in most fields with the highest levels around St. Pierre.
Lodging in cereals was reported in Dugald-Beausejour.
Interlake region - Canola has podded with some fields ready for harvest. Low levels of fusarium were reported in many fields across the district.
NOTE - The group said it had adopted a conservative policy in its treatment of goodwill and had written off the amounts.
It said although the difficult trading conditions encountered during the last quarter of the year under review were expected to continue, it was confident that it should maintain growth in the current financial year.
The following are leading domestic stories in Portuguese newspapers.
- Government wants hypermarkets to finance small businesses' pension funds says Commerce Secretary of State Jaime Andrez.
- Estoril Coast Hotels registered a 11.3 percent rise in occupancy rate in the first half of 1996 compared to the same period in 1995.
- Interest rate falls favoured the main banks in the first half of 1996. Analysts expect that the second half of 1996 will not be so favourable.
- Government wants emigrants to invest more of their remittances to Portugal and has created an instruction book. The formalities, however, may cause headaches.
- An "incorrect translation" saying Banco Comercial de Macau (BCM) branches in Macau were to close sparked panic amongst BCM clients in the territory yesterday.
The Transportation Department on Tuesday gave its tentative approval for Pan American Airlines to fly again.
But this will be a new airlines.
The old Pan Am, an aviation pioneer, was founded in 1927, but went bankrupt in 1991 after years of red ink and after a bomb brought down one of its planes in Lockerbie, Scotland in 1988, killing 270 people.
Transportation Department spokesman William Mosley said the new Pan Am, based in Miami, Florida, was found tentatively fit to provide aviation services, pending a comment period of 15 days.
The department will make a final ruling following the comment period, Mosley said.
Miami businessman Chuck Cobb bought the Pan Am name and its familiar blue globe logo in 1993 and with former Pan Am executive Martin Shugrue announced plans to restart the carrier as a small domestic airline.
Last month, the new Pan Am said it planned to start operations this summer with three planes flying routes between Miami, New York, Chicago, Los Angeles and San Francisco.
Standex International Corp said on Tuesday that it has acquired assets of Vidalia Onion Store of Peachtree City, Georgia for an undisclosed maount of cash.
Vidalia Onion is a mail order marketer of Vidalia onions grown in Georgia and has annual sales of about $2 million.
Tennessee will have to dip into reserves to cover an estimated $31 million revenue shortfall for fiscal 1996, deputy Finance Commissioner Gerald Adams said Tuesday.
The state is constitutionally required to balance its budget, but the slowing economy has caused revenues to fall below estimates made when the $13 billion budget was fine-tuned in April.
"It looks like we're going to be about $31 million undercollected in the general fund. We can cover that through available reserves," Adams said.
He said the state could tap a $27 million economic development fund used to make grants to local governments to extend water and sewer lines to industrial sites.
"We do have other reserves available. That's not the state rainy day fund," Gerald said. "It's not touched and we do not expect to touch it."
The rainy day fund contains about $101.4 million.
Fiscal 1996 ended June 30. The actual deficit could be below $31 milion because under the accrual system used in Tennessee, most July revenues and some August revenues will count toward 1996.
"We're probably looking at the end of October before we can fully close out the end of fiscal 1996," Adams said.
The state lowered its initial revenue projection by $58 million before fine-tuning the 1996 budget in April, but revenue collections have continued to slow.
General tax collections for July were $552 million, or $425 million above the revised estimates. But the general fund portion, financed largely by sales and businesses taxes, were $2.4 million below revised estimates.
Fiscal 1996 revenues rose by only 5.6 percent over 1995. The state's fiscal 1997 budget anticipates revenue growth of 5.6 percent to 6.1 percent in the general fund, and may also have to be trimmed.
The European Commission said on Tuesday it had cleared the planned acquisition by General Electric Capital Corporation of Germany's CompuNet Computer AG.
It said in a statement that CompuNet operated exclusively in Germany where it had a small market share.
"Since GE does not operate in the information technology market in the (European Union), and CompuNet operates only in Germany...no geographical overlap exists," the Commission said.
This made the venture acceptable under EU competition law.
Hibernia Corp said on Tuesday CM Bank Holding Co shareholders approved their company's merger with Hibernia Corp.
The merger is expected to become effective August 26, 1996, Hibernia said.
CM Bank is the parent of Calcasieu Marine National Bank with $791 million in assets and 21 banking locations in Louisiana, the company said.
Home Affairs Minister Mangosuthu Buthelezi expressed concern on Tuesday at a flood of illegal immigrants into South Africa, saying they placed an unacceptable burden on already stretched services like health and housing.
"The position is very serious. They pose a serious threat to South Africans as far as services are concerned," Buthelezi told a briefing for parliamentary correspondents.
He said his department estimated there were between two million and five million illegal immigrants, compared with South Africa's total population of about 40 million.
About 70 percent of the illegal immigrants are from neighbouring Mozambique, the rest mostly being split among South Africa's other neighbours like Zimbabwe.
According to figures from his department, 150,000 illegal immigrants were deported last year at a cost of 12 million rand ($2.6 million).
Buthelezi said the issue would be discussed at the annual meeting of the Southern African Development Community (SADC) in Lesotho this week but he ruled out any steps towards allowing free movement within SADC on the European Union model.
Food company shares led trade on the Nigerian stock exchange on Tuesday after a series of impressive company results, dealers said.
The all-share index closed at 6048.38 from 6040.16 on Monday.
Dealers said food shares had performed well in an economy still in the grips of recession, also pointing to the petroleum marketing sector as one that could sit out hard times.
Flour Mills closed 15 kobo up at 10.55 naira. Northern Nigerian Flour Mills rose 15 kobo to 9.50 naira. Union Dicon Salt advanced by the same margin to 30.45 naira.
Unipetrol gained 10 kobo to 32.50 naira. Total was eight kobo higher at 42.20 naira.
PZ Industries gained 10 kobo to 31.20 naira.
Packaging firms Delta Glass and Studio Press both fell two kobo to close at 6.32 naira and 1.46 naira respectively.
Allied Bank fell two kobo to 50 kobo while Niger Insurance dropped one kobo to 1.54 naira.
ImmunoTherapeutics Inc said Tuesday it has named Michael Rosen president and chief executive, effective immediately.
Rosen replaces Gerald Vosika, who will continue as the company's chairman and chief scientific officer.
Prior to joining ImmunoTherapeutics, Rosen was president and chief executive officer of Pharma Mar SA.
Hoechst Marion Roussel said Tuesday that Allegra, its non-sedating antihistamine, is now available by prescription in the United States.
The drug, which treats seasonal allergy symptoms, was approved for marketing on July 25 by the U.S. Food and Drug Administration.
Allegra is priced 15 percent less than similar treatments, according to a statement by the company.
Hoechst Marion Roussel is a unit of Hoechst AG.
German utility group Viag AG said Tuesday its group pretax profit fell 21 percent to 1.18 billion marks ($791 million) in the first half.
The group said in a statement that its operating profit had "clearly improved" in the first half of 1996 and a sharp drop in its pre-tax profit was due purely to special income factors.
In 1995, around 40 percent of Viag's first-half profit was the result of one-time gains from the sale of its 43.4 percent stake in Germany's biggest paper maker PWA and other major changes in shareholdings.
Viag said its group sales rose to 21.8 billion marks ($14.6 billion) from 21.4 billion ($14.4 billion) in the first half of 1996 and that its operating profit rose 10 percent in the period.
Sales in its chemicals, energy and logistics divisions advanced in the period while packaging sales dropped.
In the first half of 1995, Viag and its units bought several major companies including SBI Systems Bio-Industries, bought by Viag's chemicals division and a majority stake in Computer 2000.
The following list of straight bonds are indicative prices from PT Danareksa Sekuritas.
For availability, confirmed rate, amount and other details please contact Mr Desimon, Mr Soetoto and Miss Rina Mansyur at telephone +6221-526 4888 or fax 6221-526 7121/22 in Jakarta.
Bucharest's stock exchange, in the doldrums all summer, on Tuesday offered free listing for the first 10 companies privatised under a mass selloff and ready to join in bourse trading by end-October.
Commissions on listing will be waived for the first 10 companies to seek a bourse quotation before October 30, a bourse statement said.
The Bursa de Valori Bucuresti has seen sluggish business for the past two months, with turnover seldom exceeding 100 million lei against peaks of around 1.5 billion earlier this year, when its per-session average was 500 million.
Tuesday's statement invited recently privatised companies to participate, promising them safe and efficient services.
The exchange, Romania's first in 50 years, opened last November with six stocks. It now trades shares in 13 companies, of which only one -- syringe maker Sanevit SA  SNVT.BX -- is owned privately.
Under a mass privatisation programme begun last October stakes of up to 60 percent in around 4,000 state companies were offered in exchange for coupons and vouchers doled out to some 17 million adult Romanians.
Subscription level at the end of the process this spring was about 90 percent.
Brokers say the main reason for the bourse's recent poor performance is the absence of big institutional investors, who have stayed on the sidelines till more attractive private companies get a listing.
Tuesday's invitation and plans to attract another 50 stocks to trading before end-1996 seems a bid to end the recent torpor on the bourse, which will soon face tough competition from an over-the-counter (OTC) market now in the making.
The OTC market, developed under a $20 million capital market project run by the U.S. Agency for International Development is scheduled to go on line later this year, offering a means to trade the large number of mass privatisation shares.
Some say its size and volume will brush the stock exchange aside, while others say the bourse will be able to attract companies which stand out from the 4,000 privatisation stocks on the OTC.
International Business Machines Corp and Sun Microsystems Inc said they had agreed to integrate IBM's Taligent technology into Sun's Java software to give Java a more international accent.
The Taligent enhancements would allow Java, which is a software development system written by programmers working in American English, to automatically recognize the language differences of individual countries.
The Taligent software will allow Java software applets and full-size applications to adapt to international dating systems, non-U.S. currencies, and other numbers and characters that fit a respective countries' language format.
Java is a programming system that allows software designers to transform the billboard like screens of computer screens into dynamic scenes that incorporate not only text, but moving graphics, video, and sound features.
"Internationalization is a critical component for Java that our developers have been asking us to provide,"  said Jon Kannegaard, vice president of software products at JavaSoft, the division responsible for developing Sun's Java software.
Taligent was orginally formed in 1991 as a joint venture which included Apple Computer Inc and IBM and later, Hewlett-Packard Co.
Russia's acting commander in Chechnya, General Konstantin Pulikovsky, vowed on Tuesday to oust Chechen rebels from the capital Grozny.
The commander was speaking after warning the people of Grozny they should leave by Thursday or risk being caught up in an all-out Russian air and ground assault against rebel positions in the city.
His remarks contrasted with the position of Kremlin security supremo Alexander Lebed, who has promoted talks with separatist representatives and opposed the use of aircraft. Rebel fighters occupied much of Grozny on August 6.
"We do not intend to put up with the brazen and barbaric actions of illegal groups who are continuing to shoot down our helicopters, carry out bold acts of sabotage and surround Russian servicemen," Pulikovsky said.
"I see only methods of force as a way out of the situation in Grozny," he said, adding that both aircraft and heavy artillery would be used. He believed it could take at least a month to overcome the rebels in the city.
The average yield on Egyptian 182-day treasury bills fell to 10.245 percent from 10.254 percent at the previous auction on August 12.
Shanghai copper futures ended up in slow trading on Tuesday on overnight gains on the London Metal Exchange, but copper futures will meet strong pressure due to rising domestic output and imports, traders said.
The most active December 1996 contract ended at 20,640 yuan ($2,492) per tonne, rising 90 yuan. It opened at 20,700 yuan, hitting an intra-day high of 20,710 and a low of 20,630.
September rose 10 to 21,080 yuan, October 50 to 20,850, November 40 to 20,600, the January 1997 contract 90 to 20,640 and February 100 to 20,660.
Copper opened higher but profit-taking pushed contracts down steadily for most of the session.
Traders said LME gains made copper open higher, but poor fundamentals depressed long position holders and prevented further rises.
China imported 343,338 tonnes of uncast copper and copper materials in the first seven months, up 33.9 percent from the same period in 1995, China Securities News said on Tuesday.
China's total copper output rose to 517,000 tonnes in the first seven months, up 9.82 percent from the same period in 1995, China Securities News said.
China imported 537,897 tonnes of copper in 1995 and has forecast total output of 750,000 tonnes in 1996, it added.
"Despite overnight LME gains, profit-taking late in the session indicated many investors were doubtful about the room for further mid- and long-term rises," one trader said.
Aluminium ended mixed. September fell 20 to 14,650 yuan. October did not trade. November rose 50 to 14,350. Combined volume fell to 75 tonnes from 225.
The American Stock Exchange (AMEX) said on Tuesday it signed an agreement with OM Stockholm to extend the use of the AMEX Options Display Book (AODB) to its options specialists floorwide.
AODB is a fully-automated electronic book designed to replace paper books currently used by options specialists.
The AMEX said it expected all current and future options and options-related products to be on the electronic book within 12 months.
Ronald Sandler, chief executive of Lloyd's of London, on Tuesday underwent a second day of court interrogation about the 300-year-old insurance market's multibillion-dollar recovery plan, which he defended as critical to Lloyd's solvency.
Sandler was questioned for four hours in a federal courtroom by lawyers for American investors in Lloyd's and by U.S. District Judge Robert Payne about Lloyd's complex restructuring plan to settle large losses.
Tens of thousands of investors in Lloyd's worldwide -- quaintly known as Names -- were anxiously awaiting the outcome of the case, in which 100 U.S. investors have applied for an injunction to block the recovery plan.
Under the rescue proposal, Lloyd's was to reinsure billions of dollars in liabilities, including pollution and asbestosis-related claims in the United States, in a new company called Equitas.
The proposal also includes a 3.2 billion pound ($4.95 billion) cash offer to the Names designed to offset the cost of Equitas. The investors must vote on the plan by Aug. 28.
The suit, which names 93 plaintiffs, seeks to block the plan until more detailed financial information is released. It contends that Lloyd's has breached U.S. disclosure laws.
Sandler, as he did on Monday, said the plan was crucial to Lloyd's solvency.
Payne questioned Sandler for about an hour, asking about Lloyd's plans to pay its liabilities and what would happen if its investments made more money than was needed to pay off those liabilities.
"Most (Lloyd's officials) believe that some time over 30 years the liability will be extinguished," Sandler said, adding that any money left over would go to charities.
When asked by the judge who the benefactors would be, Sandler said he was not able to answer.
Payne told Sandler firmly that the company needed to have a plan for the disposition of leftover assets and that he would need to be told who the benefactors would be.
Payne also asked whether Lloyd's was able to pay the total premium if U.S. investors did not back the recovery plan. Sandler again said he was unable to answer.
The proceedings resumed in the afternoon after a break for lunch.
Payne earlier criticised the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission for refusing to determine whether Lloyd's should be subject to U.S. securities laws.
The legal challenge was complicated on Friday by the SEC's neutral position on this issue. Payne said the SEC would have a second opportunity to respond to his request for a ruling.
Separately Tuesday morning, Lloyd's received a boost from another court case in New York, which dismissed action brought against the market by four Names.
They had claimed that Lloyd's knew long ago the extent of liabilities faced by Names.
"We are pleased by this decision. Names entered into their commitments under U.K. law and we are pleased that U.S. courts continue to recognise this," said Lloyd's U.S. executive, Peter Lane.
** The U.S. Federal Reserve's policy making Federal Open Market Committee will meet on Tuesday to decide whether an interest-rate rise is needed to head off potential inflationary pressures. Economists predict the meeting will leave rates unchanged.
**  On Monday, the Dow Jones industrial average rose 9.99 points to 5,699.44 in the second slowest trading day of the year as markets braced for the Federal Reserve meeting.
** The Jakarta composite index on Monday rose 0.35 points, or 0.06 percent, to close at 537.08 points on bargain-hunting of second-liners and selected big-caps.
** The Indonesian rupiah was at 2,342.00/42.40 in early trading on Tuesday against an opening of 2,341.50/42.50.
** Shipping firm Berlian Laju Tanker on expected government regulations on shipping likely to be issued in the near future which could boost earnings of shipping firms.
** Lippo Securities on talk of a possible rights issue.
** Textile firm Pan Brothers Tex following announcement of a tender offer.
** Property firms including Bhuwanatala and Mulialand on reports that some large banks have begun to lower their interest rates.
Growth in Britain's M4 money supply slowed to 8.8 percent in the year to June, the Bank of England said on Tuesday, while lending by banks and building societies continued to increase.
The slowdown in money supply growth from annual rates of 10 percent in May and June brought the figure back within the government's three to nine percent monitoring range for the first time since last November.
Some economists said it could suggest a softening in future inflationary pressures.
However, the British Bankers' Association said a strong 539 million pound increase in consumer credit in July could point to a strengthening of consumer spending.
"The strength of consumer credit and housing market activity within the lending figures will be seized upon by the Bank of England as a potential threat to the inflation target," said Andrew Cates, an economist at UBS.
Seasonally adjusted M4 -- a broad measure of money supply which comprises notes and coins in circulation, personal and commercial bank deposits and certificates of deposit -- grew 0.4 percent in July from June, down from 0.7 percent in June.
Strong money supply growth is often seen as a pointer to future inflation and central bank Governor Eddie George has warned that interest rates might have to rise if it continued unchecked.
However, its reliability has been thrown into question this year because of special distorting factors such as a rash of corporate mergers and acquisitions.
The slowdown will, therefore, offer little new ammunition to Chancellor of the Exchequer Kenneth Clarke if he wants to cut interest rates again this autumn.
Clarke has cut rates four times since last December to their present 5.75 percent level, overruling the Bank of England on the last occasion in June. With an election looming by May 1997, he has a strong political incentive to do so again.
Jonathan Loynes, an economist at HSBC Midland, said money supply worries would not disappear overnight.
"But with the Bank of England having singled out M4 as a key area of concern in its last inflation report, these numbers should at least help to calm fears of possible inflation dangers ahead."
The bankers' association said total sterling lending by major banks rose 2.677 billion pounds in July, below the recent average. But consumer credit rose strongly and mortgage lending showed continued steady growth.
Home loan approvals reported by the Building Societies Association (BSA) rose 3.768 billion pounds in July.
"Transactions have been increasing since April and house prices have also been rising, encouraging more sellers into the market," said BSA deputy director general Ron Armstrong.
As well as being an important indicator of economic activity, the housing market is a key determinant of the so-called "feel-good factor" in a nation of home-owners.
"The housing data are buoyant," said Michael Saunders, an economist at Salomon Brothers in London.
"We suspect that the housing data again will be the more reliable guide to the real economy and that the real economy is accelerating and will continue to do so in coming months."
The following bond was announced by joint lead managers Commerzbank and Hambros Bank.
Note--Exports include crude, once and fully refined, washed, bleached or deodorized and wholly hydrogenated. Imports include crude, once refined and fully refined, and do not include pharmaceutical grade oil.
The owners of Israel's Union Bank are negotiating to purchase an additional 23.2 percent stake in the company from the government, a government official said.
Meir Jacobson, managing director of M.I. Holdings, in charge of privatising Israel's banks, said the company had started a dialogue with a consortium headed by businessman Shlomo Eliahu, to sell the government stake in the commercial bank.
The Eliahu consortium already holds some 60 percent of shares in the bank, the country's sixth largest.
M.I. Holdings had planned to sell the government's stake on the Tel Aviv Stock Exchange, but Jacobson said the share offering had been put on hold because of the discussions with Eliahu.
The Maariv daily said the Eliahu group was also interested in purchasing an additional 16.8 percent stake in the company held by Bank Leumi. A spokesman for the consortium was not immediately available for comment.
The Eliahu consortium bought control of Union Bank in 1993 after it was privatised. Founded in 1951, the bank was for many years part of the Bank Leumi group.
Daiwa Institute of Research Ltd has assigned Nippon Meat Packers Inc a "B" rating, Daiwa Securities brokers said on Wednesday.
In its three-grade rating system, the research institute assigns a "B" rating to issues whose values it sees moving within 10 percentage points in either direction of the Tokyo Stock Exchange first-section TOPIX index over the next six months.
Spokesmen for the companies were not available for futher details.
NOTE - S.T. Chemical Co Ltd is a maker of mothballs, aromatics and resin gloves.
Susan McDougal, a former business partner of President Bill Clinton, was sentenced on Tuesday to two years in prison for her fraud convictions in the Whitewater trial.
McDougal was convicted in May on four charges relating to a fraudulent $300,000 business loan she was given in 1986. Prosecutors alleged that Clinton pressured an Arkansas banker to give McDougal that loan, but the president denied under oath any involvement in the deal.
Susan McDougal is the former wife of Arkansas businessman James McDougal. They were business partners with the president and first lady Hilary Rodham Clinton in the failed Whitewater real estate venture which lies at the heart of an independent investigation into Clinton's personal and political finances.
Apart from the prison sentence, Susan McDougal was also ordered to pay restitution of $300,000 plus interest to the U.S. Small Business Adminstration, which had insured the illegal loan.
James McDougal was to have been sentenced on Monday but won a temporary reprieve because he is cooperating with the team of independent counsel Kenneth Starr.
There is a slight risk of frost damage to Canadian grain in the foothills of Alberta on Wednesday morning and along the Saskatchewan/Manitoba border on Thursday, an Environment Canada meteorologist said.
Brian Bukosi, of Environment Canada, said the outlook had become drier and cooler for Manitoba and Saskatchewan since Monday's forecasts, when only a slight risk of frost in Alberta was anticipated.
"There is a clear dry area and temperatures (at chest level) may be as low of 4.0 to 5.0 (Centigrade) so there is a slight risk of pockets of frost (in Manitoba/Saskatchewan)," he said.
Temperatures at chest level are normally around four degrees higher than at ground level, Bukosi said.
The longer term outlook saw no other risk of frost in key grain growing areas up to Thursday August 29.
Freeport-McMoRan Oil & Gas Royalty Trust said on Tuesday that net proceeds for August totalled $216,315, or $0.01444 per unit, decreasing the cost carry-forward to $2.9 million.
It said it would not make any distribution for August.
Freeport-McMoRan added that it would pay $36,718 for net current month trust administrative expenses from the trust administrative expense reserve, resulting in about $2.1 million remaining in the expense reserve.
Britain's mobile telephone operator Orange Plc said on Tuesday it now had over 600,000 subscribers, a gain on the 573,000 it reported at the end of June.
The news came as the company announced a pre-tax loss of 125.2 million pounds ($193.6 million) in line with market consensus for the six months to June 30, but up from 88.8 million previously. At the same time however Orange's sales in the first half more than doubled to 256.5 million from 100 million pounds.
U.S. West Coast light crude prices continued rising with cash West Texas Intermediate, while differentials coasted at last week's levels amid razor-thin business late Monday.
Activity ground to a near halt as traders left for a industry golf game.
Players heard talk that a major West Coast refiner bought a cargo of Alaska North Slope (ANS) early from the ANS's main seller.
Northwest refiners said they were waiting for the results of Monday's pipe line nominations on the Inter Provincial Pipe Line (IPL) in Canada's midwest.
Surplus from the line could move west, offsetting their need to buy ANS, traders said.
"It depends on (the grade's) price," one refinery trader said, adding his basic needs were filled, but he might need extra.
Prices for Kern River and Wilmington were notionally flat, as postings were unchanged from mid-July.
Prices for Line 63 tracked higher WTI values, with traders reporting no new deals.
Pre-nominations for Line 63 shipments will begin Tuesday traders said, with little change from last month's restrictions.
New Zealand's government is to sell state-owned Forestry Corporation to a consortium of Fletcher Challenge, Brierley Investments and China's Citic, a government source said on Tuesday.
He told Reuters the Fletcher consortium plans to invest NZ$16 million in Forestry Corp's Waipa sawmill and has plans for a NZ$200 million particleboard factory to be built by the year 2000.
European bourses moved cautiously to close around their highs on Tuesday, slightly constrained by nerves over over U.S. and German interest rate policy.
No change in U.S. interest rates is expected from the U.S. Federal Reserve's Open Market Committee meeting on Tuesday but market players are still tending to hold back until news emerges.
In Germany, growth in M3, the central bank's main policy guide, slowed to an annualised 8.6 percent in July from 9.6 percent in June, virtually guaranteeing a cut in interest rates at Thursday's meeting of the Bundesbank council, analysts said.
French shares extended earlier gains to close over one percent higher, outshining most other European centres, as fresh talk of rate cuts allowed the market to claw back some of its recent underperformance.
The Paris bourse gained more than 30 points, quickly pushing the CAC-40 share index through the 2,000 barrier for the first time since August 8. The index closed at its highest level since August 2, before recent attacks on the franc.
London shares climbed to another record high, led by renewed strength in retailing and oil stocks and following reassuring money supply data from both Britain and Germany. The market closed only slightly below its high.
The blue-chip FTSE 100 index peaked at 3,884.8, nearly seven points up on its previous record set on Monday, after British M4, the broad measure of money supply, showed money growth remained subdued through July.
Analysts said the figures could give further ammunition to Chancellor of the Exchequer Kenneth Clarke if he wants to trim the 5.75 percent base interest rate again in coming months.
"It is a good figure...most people hadn't expected the figure to come back into the monitoring range, which is about the first time for six or seven months," said economist Keith Wade of Schroders.
Germany's positive data failed to set a cautious bourse alight and it traded mixed, with the floor traded bourse index down 2.5 and the electronically traded IBIS DAX up 5.87 points.
The dollar was edging below earlier levels in late European business that was cautious ahead of the outcome of today's Federal Reserve meeting.
Wariness ahead of the meeting has taken the shine off the dollar's earlier dash to session highs on news that the U.S. trade deficit for June had narrowed 23 percent from the previous month.
"OK, so the Fed probably won't move and the Bundesbank probably will, particularly after that good M3 number. But in this market you will get killed if you're wrong and have a big position," said one trader. "I'm not taking the risk."
Dollar/mark was trading at 1.4880 and dollar/yen at 108.32 versus Monday's late 1.4875 and 107.90. Mark/French franc was trading at 3.4159 against 3.4232.
The Financial Times-Stock Exchange index of 100 leading British shares ended up 19.5 points at 3,883.2. Frankfurt's 30-share DAX index closed down 2.5 at 2,563.20. The electronic IBIS DAX was up 5.87. Paris's CAC-40 finished up 33.05 at 2,019.347.
Gold closed a little firmer at $387.55 an ounce vs Monday's $386.65, awaiting the outcome of the Federal Reserve meeting. Silver ended up 11 cents at $5.23, consolidating at current levels following its sharp move higher overnight. Platinum finished up $1.40 at $399.80.
Turkey's consolidated budget showed a deficit of 564 trillion lira in the first seven months of this year, sharply up from 103.3 trillion lira in the same 1995 period, Finance Minister Abdulatif Sener said on Tuesday.
Budget revenues stood at 1,349 trillion lira and expenditures at 1,913 trillion, Sener told a news conference.
The budget deficit was 475.4 trillion lira at end-June.
Shares in Finnish sporting goods group Amer-yhtyma Oy on Tuesday extended strong earlier gains and hit its highest value since November 2, 1994 amid sustained lively foreign demand, brokers said.
"Amer shares are being bought with big money from abroad," one broker said.
However, brokers had no explanation for the lively demand.
Java Sea 60 05/09 Mideast/Red Sea rnr CNR.
Pacific Ruby 70 05/09 Mideast/Japan W145 GSSK.
Skauholt 33 30/08 Mideast/South Korea rnr Samsung.
-UK/CONT.
Havkong 35 31/08 Pembroke/USAC W155 Stentex.
Cielo di Roma 28 -/09 UKC/Argentina rnr OMV.
British Argosy 26 05/09 Hawaii/Japan $500,000 BHP.
Nol Sagitta 40 28/08 Singapore/Australia rnr Shell.
Nol Sagitta 25 21/08 Singapore/Anyer rnr Marubeni.
Excel 30 27/08 Mexico/Brazil rnr Petrobras.
Eternity 30 22/08 Caribs/USAC $175,000 Vitol.
Petrobulk Cougar 30 29/08 Caribs/USAC W215 Vitol.
Adriatiki 28 22/08 Sarroch/UKCM rnr ELF.
San Carlos 30 21/08 Black Sea/UKCM rnr Runicom.
Koch 30 UN Australia/USAC 01/09.
Titan 30 NA Ras Tanura/options 15-17/09.
IOC 30 Kuwait/India 29-30/08.
Sietco 30 Singapore/Anyer 2-3/09.
Amoil 30 GAS OIL Bahrain/Chittagong 24-26/08.
MSC 31 Kuwait/Jebel Ali 24-27/08.
Stasco 45 Mideast/India 21-25/08.
PNSL 25 Rabigh Bay/Seychelles 26-28/08.
Viking Office Products Inc shares rose to 23-1/2 in U.S. pre-open trading from Monday's 23-1/8 close after reporting quarterly results, traders said.
Viking earned $0.19 a share for the quarter after a $0.02 a share charge, up from $0.14 a share a year ago. The First Call consensus was $0.19.
Stewart & Stevenson reported second quarter share earnings fell to $0.16 before charges. The First Call consensus was $0.34.
"It's slow. Another day of summer doldrums and we're waiting for the results of the FOMC meeting later today," another trader said.
Organisers of the Miss Universe pageant on Tuesday denied they had ordered their reigning beauty queen, Venezuela's Alicia Machado, to shed pounds or else give up her title.
"We are distressed about the recent reports that the Miss Universe organisation has put Alicia Machado on notice that she must lose weight in order to retain her title as Miss Universe," said Martin Brooks, president of Los Angeles-based Miss Universe Inc.
Brooks, in a statement released in the resort town of Las Cruces where Machado is attending the Miss Teen USA beauty pageant, said Miss Universe officials were "extremely happy with Alicia and feel she fulfils her obligations ... exceptionally well."
In an unusual development, officials of the Miss Venezuela Organisation said on Monday in Caracas that Machado had been given an ultimatum by Miss Universe organisers to lose 27 pounds (12 kg) in two weeks or risk losing the title.
She was 5 feet 7 inches (1.73 meters) tall and weighed 112 pounds (51 kg) when she became the fourth Venezuelan to win the crown in Las Vegas in May.
But on Tuesday Venezuelan pageant officials backed away from their earlier comments, with one official telling Reuters: "She obviously has a weight problem which affects her swimsuit contracts but this does not mean she will be stripped of her crown."
Brooks emphasised on Tuesday that "a weight requirement is not part of our titleholder employment contract."
Machado was attending the 1996 Miss Teen USA Pageant in her official capacity as Miss Universe. Teen pageant officials said the 19-year-old Machado was there as the pageant's special guest, not to shed pounds.
Machado was scheduled to make a public appearance during the teen pageant, which was to be held on Wednesday night at New Mexico State University and broadcast nationwide by CBS television.
Asked if Machado was overweight, Wendy Schwartz, a Miss Universe publicist accompanying the beauty queen, said, "I suggest people tune in to the show tomorrow night and they can decide for themselves."
Miss Teen USA officials said Machado would not talk to reporters before the pageant and it was unclear if she would have anything to say publicly when the event was over.
After she was awarded the title in May, Machado told reporters in Las Vegas she planned to do "something I haven't been able to do in three weeks: eat, eat, eat and sleep."
Those close to the beauty queen said she has difficulty sticking to diets and a weakness for pastas and cakes.
Note: The 1996 second-quarter results include a one-time charge of $1.1 million for writedown of capitalized softdown.
Tehran is banking on Malaysia's Petronas acquisition of a 30 percent stake in a project to develop two oil and gas fields in Iran to deflect intense U.S. efforts to isolate the Islamic republic.
"This shows that unilateral moves cannot isolate the Iranian oil industry. It also indicates that the U.S. position is not shared by foreign oil companies," an Iranian oil official told Reuters by telephone from Tehran on Tuesday.
The official predicted the deal "will have a positive impact" on other foreign companies seeking business in Iran's lucrative oil and gas industries. "The deal indicates that the U.S. cannot dictate its own will."
But the key question now is whether other companies will follow suit in the face of tough new U.S. moves to penalise non-American firms that invest in energy projects in Iran and Libya, analysts and diplomats said.
"Iran is trying everything possible to break the sanctions and the isolation," said an oil industry executive in the Gulf.
"But the Americans aren't joking and other companies like ours are likely to remain cautious. Iran is a risky market."
French oil group Total SA on Monday said Malaysia's state-owned energy company Petronas had taken a 30 percent stake in the Sirri A and E fields through its Carigali subsidiary in a deal approved by the Iranian authorities.
The announcement, ending a search of more than a year for partners in the $600 million project, came two weeks after U.S. President Bill Clinton signed a bill which would penalise foreign firms which invest $40 million or more annually in Iran's or Libya's energy sectors.
The Iranian official said Petronas sealed the deal before the new U.S. sanctions were made law. But the official and Gulf oil analysts predicted the news would still anger Washington.
"This is outright defiance. It will be seen by Washington as open defiance of Clinton's bill," said one analyst. "At the same time, companies will be taking a risk if they invest in Iran."
But a British diplomat underlined the rift between the United States and its European allies who were outraged at the U.S. sanctions.
"We will be perfectly content to trade with Iran. We don't have a problem with that. There are opportunites in Iran and European companies will follow their governments' leads," the Gulf-based diplomat said. "Other companies are likely to follow Petronas's lead."
Total, which has always said its dealings with both Iran and Libya were within French and international law, said earlier this month that the U.S. sanctions would not apply to Sirri.
The Sirri deal, Iran's largest with a foreign firm since its 1979 revolution, attracted fierce opposition from Washington which accuses Tehran of backing "international terrorism".
Iran denies the charges.
DuPont Co unit Conoco Inc had to dissolve an earlier deal with Iran for the development of the two Sirri fields after pressure from the White House.
Iran said the new sanctions were doomed to fail because they lacked support from European states which have refused to adopt the U.S. hardline stand on Tehran.
Total signed a contract on July 13, 1995 with the National Iranian Oil Company covering all phases of the development of the two fields, including studies, delineation, development and production start-up.
Bangladeshi traders on Monday took issue with a government plan to restrict imports of used cars in its drive against pollution and said it could push up prices.
"It's absolutely wrong to put the blame on used imported cars. All re-conditioned Japanese vehicles... are sure to have anti-pollution devices as per Japan's export rule," said Abdul Haque, president of the Bangladesh Re-conditioned Vehicles Importers and Dealers Association.
The re-conditioned cars constitute nearly 90 percent of Bangladesh's total car imports.
Huque told a news conference the government served notice last month it was going to limit the age of used imported cars to three years, arguing the vehicles are polluting the environment. Currently, importers are allowed to bring in five-year- old used cars.
"We are importing the cars that have in-biult anti-pollution devices and are safe," Haque said.
He said the government also imposed Value Added Tax (VAT) at a rate of 15 percent on sales of the cars, effective July this year.
He warned that the price of re-conditioned cars in local markets might be "doubled or trippled" because of such moves.
Bangladesh reduced import duty on car imports to 45 percent from 50 percent in fiscal 1996/97 which began on July 1. The country imported nearly 30,000 re-conditioned cars, mostly from Japan, in 1995-96.
The government earned 3.0 billion taka ($71.4 million) as tax revenue from car imports last year.
Nepal's textile mills, closed for three weeks in protest against an increase in sales tax, re-opened on Tuesday after the government agreed to review a tax proposal, a senior industry official said.
"We will open the factories as the government has agreed to consider some of our policy-related demands," Mahesh Lal Pradhan, president of Nepal Textile Industries' Association (NTIA), told Reuters.
More than 200 textile plants closed last month, throwing 20,000 people out of work, after the government raised the sales tax to 15 percent from five percent. The industry wants the government to restore the old rate.
Prime Minister Sher Bahadur Deuba, who is also Finance Minister, had assured the entrepreneurs that he would take care of the interest of factory owners, Pradhan said.
Factory owners said the sales tax hike had made Nepali products costlier than textiles imported from India or Tibet. Cheaper textiles were also smuggled in from India, they said.
Pradhan said the government had also agreed to make the valuation of imports realistic and take strong measures against smuggling.
South Korean refiners are struggling to sell their gas oil (diesel) cargoes for September lifting despite the sharp price hike in Singapore, traders said on Tuesday.
"There are about seven to ten 30,000-tonne cargoes that are unsold for September loading," a South Korean trader said.
"Even at a 30-cent premium we cannot ship the cargoes to China as the Singapore spot prices are very high," a Korean trader said. Singapore prices provide the benchmark for product pricing in South Korea.
Traders said Chinese buyers were willing to pay up to $193/tonne cost-and-freight basis to South China. But at prevailing spot prices in Singapore, these cargoes would land in China at least at $200 per tonne, c-and-f.
A total of four cargoes of between 150,000-to-240,000 barrels each traded in Singapore on Monday at between $25.65 and 25.75 a barrel, traders said.
One trader said the Koreans were having problems selling their gas oil as it is priced off Singapore spot prices which are based on different economics.
This is because the higher Singapore prices are sustained by spot purchases from Indonesia and trades covering recent sales to India and Nepal, the trader said.
It was therefore not economical for Korean gas oil to be shipped further south beyond Thailand since Singapore has a greater freight advantage, another trader said.
In recent days, trading firms with Korean barrels were forced to take a risk and sell their cargoes at a possible loss in order to dispose off the product due to a lack of demand in North Asia.
But not many are willing to take this risk. Korean refiners are hoping for a downward correction in Singapore spot prices that would allow them to export again, the Korean trader said.
A China-controlled body has handed out more than 10,000 nomination forms for Hong Kong people to join the panel that will choose the British colony's leader and legislature when it reverts to China in mid-1997.
The mad scramble began last Thursday when the Preparatory Committee opened the nomination process.
By noon on Tuesday, a committee spokesman told Reuters, 10,767 forms had been issued.
Hong Kong, a bustling capitalist territory of 6.2 million people, will revert to China at midnight on June 30 next year, ending a century-and-a-half of British colonial rule.
The first post-colonial chief executive and a provisional legislature will be picked in November by the Selection Committee, whose 400 seats are now being chased.
"In the entire political history of Hong Kong, we have never seen such an enthusiastic response to any election process," independent political commentator Andy Ho told Reuters.
"From this point of view, China can be considered to have been successful," Ho said.
The nomination process, which will last a month, has drawn a wide range of seat-seekers ranging from members of professional associations to business organisations, from local tycoons and politicians to resident foreign businessmen.
The popular Democratic Party is boycotting the process because it views as illegal China's plan to dismantle Hong Kong's fully elected Legislative Council and replace it with the appointed provisional council on July 1 next year.
A U.S. appeals court Tuesday denied United Parcel Service, Inc.'s appeal that it be subject to the jurisdiction of the National Mediation Board rather than the National Labor Relations Board.
UPS challenged the NLRB's authority in 1993, but the board denied the company's bid to shift jurisdiction to the NMB, which rules on railway and airline labor matters.
The U.S. Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia said the NLRB had properly determined that UPS was primarily a trucking company subject to its jurisdiction.
Thousands of Belgian mourners paid last respects on Tuesday to Julie Lejeune and Melissa Russo, the eight-year-old Belgian girls starved to death by paedophile kidnappers in a crime that horrified the nation.
As the two friends lay side by side in white coffins, each bearing a brass plaque inscribed simply "Julie" and "Melissa", weeping people filed past at the rate of 500 an hour from early till late as Belgium poured out its grief.
Marc Dutroux, a convicted child sex offender who has been formally charged with the abduction and illegal imprisonment of two other girls rescued last Thursday, led police on Saturday to the bodies buried in the garden of a house he owns.
Julie and Melissa were kidnapped in June 1995. They starved to death in February or March this year.
The two girls will be buried in a private ceremony on Thursday morning, followed by a public memorial service at the St. Martin Basilica in Liege.
Belgian television has arranged to broadcast live from the memorial service at which police expect a congregation of 50,000 to 100,000 people.
Italian refinery runs fell 3.4 percent in the first six months of 1996 to 41.6 million tonnes, trade body Unione Petrolifera said.
It said the amount of crude processed rose 0.3 percent.
NOTE: The above are tabulated results for the second quarter fiscal year ended July 31.
Federal Reserve policymakers left short-term interest rates untouched on Tuesday, setting the stage for a trend-breaking steepening of the cash Treasury yield curve in the near-term, analysts said.
"The potential now is for steepening, especially after the auctions are out of the way next week," said Michael Krauss, chief technical strategist at Chase Securities Inc.
The U.S. Treasury will announce on Wednesday the amount of next week's scheduled two- and five-year note sales. Morgan Guarantee Trust Co. has estimated the total at $31.25 billion.
The current spread stands at 83 basis points and Burke said it could go as high as 95 in the short term, breaking out of the 70 to 85 basis point range seen so far this summer.
"I see resistance at around 94, so we're looking at maybe 10 basis points of steepening within the near-term," he said.
Krauss sees the yield differential between 10- and two-year notes widening to the high 60's from a current 59 basis point spread.
But a flattening trend will reinstate itself if the economy heats up and talk emerges once again regarding a possible future Federal funds rate hike, analysts said.
"I think the economy is going to look stronger in the month of September than in the July data we've been getting," said Martin Mauro, first vice president and senior economist in securities research and economics at Merrill Lynch & Co.
For investors with a one-year horizon, Mauro recommended a so-called "barbell" strategy -- splitting maturities between the front end of the curve for decreased price volatility and the long end for higher yield -- over an equivalent duration strategy of going long in a single maturity.
Convexity measures the rate at which duration changes in response to a change in interest rates. Duration is the average number of years a bond portfolio is exposed to market risk. Duration and convexity are the two criteria used to measure price sensitivity of bonds.
Fundamentals aside, technicals point to more curve steepening after the initial breakout from the summer's tight range.
Relatively stagnant yield differencials have been solidifying a new base level. Once this base is firmly established in two to three months, the two- and 30-year Treasury spread will move towards 110 to 120, Burke said.
The Federal Open Market Committee opted on Tuesday to hold interest rates steady amid signs the economy is slowing with no immediate inflation pressures in sight.
Dry conditions in U.S. growing regions could result in even lower 1996 corn and soybean crops than forecast by the U.S. Department of Agriculture on Aug 12, the independent newsletter Oil World said.
"If current forecasts of insufficient moisture in several parts of the Midwest materialise and/or damage occurs from early frosts, there is the risk that actual yields will even fall below the...USDA figures, not only for corn but also for soybeans," it said.
USDA's forecast for corn was lower than expected at 8.695 billion bushels while soybean was neutral at 2.300 billion.
Oil World said if dry weather over the next three weeks cut soybean yields to only 35.5 bushels per acre compared with 36.2 forecast by USDA, the crop may only be 2.250 billion.
The soybean crop was inferior to last year's because of late plantings, delayed growth and dry conditions.
Oil World forecast a high degree of soycomplex and grain price volatility in the next two to four weeks.
Aberdeen qualified for the first round of the UEFA Cup on Tuesday, but they were given the fright of their lives by the Lithuanian minnows Zalgiris Vilnius before booking their place in Friday's draw.
Zalgiris won 3-1 but after trailing 4-1 from the first leg qualifier on their own ground they lost 5-4 on aggregate.
The visitors had only arrived in Aberdeen in the early hours of Tuesday morning following a 12-hour coach trip from London.
But it was the Scottish club who looked travel-sick as the slick visitors pulled them apart.
It was no surprise when Grhzvydas Mikulenas shot Zalgiris into a 53rd minute lead as he burst clear on the right before angling a devastating shot back across Michael Watt.
Aberdeen did look more urgent in their attacking play in the second half, but captain Brian Irvine blundered badly in the 76th minute, fouling Mikulenas in the penalty area. Puklevicius stepped up to drill home the resulting spotkick.
That came with just 14 minutes to go and Irvine made amends by seemingly putting the tie beyond doubt with just five minutes to go, sending a soaring header into the top corner of the net from a Joe Miller corner.
But Vilnius were not finished. Mikulenas went straight up the other end of the field to hammer in another cracking drive from the edge of the penalty area to set up a tense finale.
In Glasgow, Jorge Cadete fired Celtic into the first round with a dramatic late winner against FC Kosice.
The Portuguese star struck with only two minutes to go after the Slovakian side had been reduced to 10 men with the 86th minute sending-off of Karol Prazenica for his second bookable offence.
Barry Town were the toast of Wales as they came back from the dead to knock out Hungarians Budapest Vasutas 4-2 in a thrilling penalty shoot-out.
Barry, 3-1 down from the first leg, forced extra-time with a 3-1 result that thrilled a capacity 2,500 crowd.
Then, after holding out against a late onslaught from the Hungarian league runners-up, Barry coolly slotted home four penalties while Hungarians Jorge Bognar and Zoltan Bukszegi failed to hit the target.
Three clubs reached the first round by winning their final Intertoto Cup matches -- Karlsruhe of Germany, Guingamp of France and Silkeborg of Denmark.
In Glasgow, Kosice coach Jan Kozak was angry at the sending off of Prazenica against Celtic and the award of an 81st minute penalty for a push on Paolo Di Canio, although striker Pierre van Hooydonk missed the spot-kick.
Kosice said: "We are very young and very ambitious and wanted to show the world what we could do. But we were forced to play against Celtic's players, the home crowd and a referee."
Celtic manager Tommy Burns said: "I am delighted with the result. They were well organised and it took time to break them down."
Following is an analysis of the 30-share Bombay Stock Exchange (BSE) index movement on Tuesday.
The table shows the stocks which moved the index most during the day and their percentage contribution to the net change.
The index at the close was 3316.06, 34.57 points or 1.05 percent higher than Monday's close.
Indonesia's armed forces plan to launch a big military exercise on and around the oil-rich Natuna islands next month, the official Antara news agency said on Tuesday.
"All types of operations and new weapons owned by the armed forces will be tested in the exercise on the Natuna islands," Lieutenant-General Wiranto, exercise director and chief of the army's strategic command (Kostrad), was quoted as saying.
The exercise would run from September 8-19, Wiranto said, adding: "It is aimed at increasing the armed forces capabilities as a defence force."
Wiranto said that the armed forces had previously launched joint military exercises on the same scale in 1988 and 1992.
"This exercise will become the biggest and most complicated," he said, adding that missiles, tanks, submarines and fighter aircraft would be used.
At least 19,525 personnel, including elite special forces (Kopassus), marines, and air force paratroops would take part in the exercise, Wiranto added.
Antara said the Natuna islands in South China Sea were chosen because of their sparse population and inaccessibility.
In 1994, Indonesia signed a multi-billion dollar deal with Exxon Corp of the United States to exploit the Natuna gas fields, which contain an estimated 210 trillion cubic feet of gas.
Indonesia recently questioned a Chinese maritime map that showed the Natunas as part of China's territory but accepted an explanation from Beijing which said they belonged to Jakarta.
- Electricity spot prices will decline by 11 percent by 1999 and then stabilize at around $27.50 megawatts/hour, the firm said. That is 30 percent lower than the contractual prices both Central Puerto and Central Costanera currently enjoy.
- As a result, Central Puerto faces profit declines of 66 percent in 2000 and 48 percent in 2001, while Central Costanera's profits will likely fall 58 percent and 67 percent in those years, Paribas said.
Scandinavian Airlines System (SAS) on Tuesday reported first half 1996 pre-tax profits slightly up on the same period last year, but said the full-year result could be slightly weaker than the record profits of 1995.
SAS said first half pre-tax profits rose to 1.05 billion Swedish crowns from 1.04 billion during the same period last year. The result was slightly lower than market expectations.
The carrier, which is partially owned by the governments of Sweden, Norway and Denmark, said group operating revenue fell to 17.44 billion Swedish crowns from 17.74 billion.
A statement said an earlier forecast of somewhat weaker full-year income before the sale of fixed assets compared with 1995 remained unchanged.
"Last year was a record year," SAS chief executive officer Jan Stenberg told reporters. "We cannot all the time continue to beat new world records. Our profitability is very good compared to the rest of the European airline industry."
Full-year 1995 pre-tax profits were 2.63 billion Swedish crowns and it was especially the third quarter that lifted the results, Stenberg said.
Operating income in the second 1996 quarter fell by 241 million crowns to 830 million -- mainly because a stronger Swedish crown had a negative effect on revenues in foreign currency not fully compensated for by positive effects on expenses in foreign currencies.
"Part of the profit increase we would otherwise have seen we won't see because tickets sold in dollars and French franc are worth less in Swedish crowns," Stenberg said.
The Swedish crown has strengthened by six percent since the beginning of the year while the trend in the first half of 1995 was a weaking of eight percent.
The statement said the alliance with Germany's Lufthansa continued to meet expectations. Traffic included in the SAS/Lufthansa joint venture rose by 11 percent in the first half while production increased by six percent.
With the exception of domestic traffic in Sweden and Denmark, all route sectors showed an incease of seven to 10 percent compared with the first half of 1995.
But the statement said increased competition between the Scandinavian capitals of Stockholm, Oslo and Copenhagen and on some European routes made forecasting conditions for the second half difficult.
After enjoying a virtual monopoly in Scandinavian skies for 50 years, SAS is now being challenged on its home base. Several airlines have recently moved into the skies traditionally dominated by SAS, undercutting its passenger prices which remain some of the highest in the world.
"We'll beat them," Stenberg said. "We are not going to sit back and let the competitors take over parts of our market. We have a battery or rather artillery of means to combat competitors. We have our traffic system, we have our timetable, our service concept, our prices, we have got Eurobonus."
"We can arrange our prices so that they are competitive too. We have already announced price cuts on some flights to Brussels," he said.
Virgin Express, run by Britain's high-flying entrepreneur Richard Branson, has announced the start of daily cheap flights between Copenhagen and Brussels from September. Norwegian airline Braathens SAFE has been given approval to run up to nine daily flights between Oslo and Stockholm from this autumn -- a route once tightly controlled by SAS.
Brazilian sugar exports from the centre south growing region up to August 1 amounted to 1.3 million tonnes versus 865,000 tonnes in the same period a year ago, a top Ministry of Industry and Commerce official said.
Mauricio Assis, head of the ministry's primary commodities department, added there was as yet no pressure from exporters to increase the 5.2 million tonne export limit set in the 1996/97 sugar crop plan.
Assis, talking to reporters after meeting centre south producers in Brasilia, said total cane production so far this harvest had been 28 percent ahead of the previous year.
A Dutch subsidiary of Turkey's Garanti Bank said on Tuesday it had signed a $65 million credit agreement.
The credit accord, at 62.5 bps over LIBOR, is being arranged by Rabobank Nederland, Standard Chartered and West LB and was signed in Amsterdam on August 14.
United Garanti Bank International NV said the new agreement follows a $50 million accord last year at 75 bps over LIBOR.
The credit will be used to finance increasing trade transactions in Turkey, Europe and the United States. It said the credit agreement may be extended after one year.
Dutch tank storage and shipping group Pakhoed NV said on Tuesday first half group results from its tank storage business slipped to 45 million guilders from 66 million guilders in the first half of last year.
Pakhoed earlier announced a 4.6 million first half net profit, down from the previous 61.4 million, hit by 54.3 million guilders of restructuring charges.
The company said chemicals storage achieved a further improvement in results while edible oils were positive. "In oil storage operations the developments were unfavourable," the company said in a statement with results.
Oil storage results in Singapore were hit because of the loss of a contract, Pakhoed said.
European tank storage made 26.5 million guilders in the first half against 47.5 million in the first half of 1995 while the rest of the world operation was flat at 18.5 million.
"The distribution activities achieved lower results as compared with 1995," said Pakhoed, noting its Lambert Riviere unit had performed exceptionally well in the first half of 1995.
"Market conditions have stabilised by now, because of which we expect a better second half year for Lambert Riviere as compared with the same period last year," Pakhoed said.
The firm said a lower profit contribution of its 28 percent share in Univar was due to the negative results of the U.S. division in the last quarter of Univar's 1995/96 year which corresponds with Pakhoed's first quarter of 1996.
Univar's Canadian and European divisions continued to perform well, said Pakhoed. Pakhoed in June said it planned a $300 million takeover of the Univar shares it did not own.
Silver prices opened higher on the back of spurt in the world market but demand resistance at the higher level and light profit-taking trimmed early gains towards the close on Tuesday, dealers said.
Silver was up by five rupees per kg on Monday.
"Improved supplies of the imported silver at higher level also capped early gains," they said.
Gold opened higher but remained steady at that level throughout the day amid thin activity, dealers said.
Haitian President Rene Preval on Tuesday visited the Port-au-Prince police station, the scene of a Monday morning attack by unidentified men wearing military uniforms.
"There was shooting near the residence of (former President Jean-Bertrand) Aristide as well," Preval said.
Police officers at the station said things were returning to normal after an attack by some 20 men in military fatigues. The men threw grenades and fired automatic weapons, killing a shoeshine worker who was caught in the crossfire.
"Everyone has calmed down, although now we are increasing security," said one officer who works at the station.
"We are increasing all our patrols and investigating to determine who was responsible," police spokesman Felder Jean-Baptiste told a news conference on Monday night.
He said the attackers dressed like the former military and wielded heavy weapons but he could not say who they were as they had all escaped.
The Haitian military was disbanded by Aristide in January, 1995, shortly after he was restored to power by U.S. troops. He was ousted in 1991 in a bloody military coup.
The Haitian National Police replaced the military as the nation's security force. Former soldiers have been marching in the capital, angry that they no longer receive a paycheck.
Police initially said Monday's attack on the police station lasted about an hour but have since trimmed that estimate. Jean-Baptiste said the attack lasted half an hour, U.N. spokesman Eric Falt said it lasted fifteen minutes, and local newspapers have reported that it raged for five minutes.
The Belgian Treasury's bond exchange auction on Tuesday totalled 13.48 billion francs, the Treasury said in a statement  BELE.
At the auction, participants could exchange the May 1997 linear bond (code 266) against the following bonds: April 1999 (code 264), March 2001 (code 285), June 2002 (code 259), May 2006 (code 283) and July 2008 (code 268).
South Africa was on course to attracting the kind of investment needed to reach the target of six percent growth, Trade and Industry Minister Alec Erwin said.
"The fundamentals in the economy with regard to investment potential, trade potential are...looking sound and we are quite happy with the levels of investment that are occurring," he told a media briefing at parliament.
Key projects included the recently launched Maputo corridor, linking the industrial heartland around Johannesburg with the Mozambican port.
The same corridor concept was being extended to the Wild Coast in the Eastern Cape, KwaZulu-Natal, the area around Saldanha Bay in the Western Cape, and in the Free State.
"The number of investment projects that are emerging...is truly quite exciting and over the next few months these will be unfolding on a regular basis," Erwin said.
"I think that what we can foresee is that the level of investment that is needed to get us to the six percent growth rate is definitely within our grasp.
"We are not talking about nothing here. We are talking about some very exciting investment initiatives."
One drawback remained the fact that many existing industries were uncompetitive by world standards, but this was being addressed by a series of cluster studies on key sectors.
These were aimed at identifying strengths and weaknesses and ways in which productivity and competitiveness could be improved.
Erwin added that negotiations with the European Union on a proposed free trade agreement were due to resume in September but it was clear that the current offer by the EU posed many difficulties for South Africa.
"The proposal by the EU is inherently a complicated proposal...so we have to consider our response very carefully," he said.
"As it stands right at the moment...it would look as if we are in for a fairly protracted negotiation."
Media group Australian Provincial Newspapers Ltd (APN) said on Tuesday that it was optimistic of reporting an increase in earnings for the 12 months to December 31, 1996.
"We would be pretty optimistic of maintaining our unbroken record of profit increases in the current year," APN chief executive Cameron O'Reilly told a media briefing in Brisbane.
"We are confident of attaining a 5.1 percent deficit despite the currency problems and we're on target to move to the next level, namely the four percent target next year," he said.
"Indications are that we remain on target for three percent growth. Even though there is a slowdown in manufacturing we have a very buoyant agricultural sector and non-gold mining (sector)."
Inflation remained fairly well under control, despite the weakness of the rand, he said.
The one area of difficulty was the current account of the balance of payments. "That is a structural problem that will take a long time to correct," Manuel said.
South Africa was still experiencing positive inflows, but this was not sufficient to cover the current account which is running at around one billion rand a month.
The New Zealand government said on Tuesday it had sold its shares in Forestry Corp of New Zealand to a Fletcher Challenge-Brierley Investments-China International Trust and Investment (Citifor) consortium for NZ$2.026 billion.
"This exceeds the book value of $2.024 billion and is a very good price," Finance Minister Bill Birch told a briefing.
FCNZ carries $426 million in debt and other liabilities and the net proceeds to the government will be $1.6 billion.
He said the purchase went to the highest bidder and the deal did not include any tax concessions.
"Forestry tax laws are clear. Fletcher Challenge and its partners have no special ability to reduce Forestry Corporation-related tax," he said.
FCNZ's main asset is cutting rights to 188,000 hectares of mainly pine and fir forest in the central North Island.
FCL said it would invest NZ$260 million over the next seven to eight years in new wood processing facilities in the central North Island and it expects to generate 700 new jobs.
Birch said Maori land claims were not affected by the sale and were protected under law.
In a separate agreement, the government has agreed to buy out FCNZ's long-term contracts from FCL unit Tasman Pulp and Paper for $30 million. The contracts had 34 years to run and related to FCNZ's obligation to supply logs to Tasman.
The Fletcher /Brierley /Citifor group won the bid ahead of a Carter Holt Harvey consortium which included Malaysia's Jaya Tiasa and Te Ama, the commercial arm of Maori tribes who claim ownership of FCNZ's land.
U.S. giant Weyerhaeuser Co was another bidder.
The forests were valued in FCNZ's 1994/95 accounts at $2.1 billion.
The land on which FCNZ grows its trees is owned by the government and is leased back to the corporation.
Maori tribes claim the land and are expected to become the eventual owners.
FCNZ controls 13 percent of New Zealand's commercial plantation forest but a greater proportion of the uncommitted woodflow.
The corporation produces approximately 200,000 cubic metres of lumber annually, representing 6.9 percent of New Zealand's total production.
Japan and South Korea are the major markets for FCNZ'S logs.
FCNZ employs 700 people and its contractors employ a further 630.
Its Kaingaroa forest processing plan is technologically advanced and processes whole trees in a "factory" environment while its Waipa processing plant is one of the largest radiata lumber processing plants in Australasia.
NZ$4.5 billion and $6.4 billion would have to be invested in processing over the next 15 years if New Zealand was to maximise its value potential. Such an investment would create between 30,000 and 40,000 new jobs, Forest Minister John Falloon said.
Australian Finance Minister John Fahey said on a Wednesday that the Federal budget would increase national savings and put downward pressure on interest rates.
The government announced on Tuesday it would make A$3.9 billon of budget cuts to produce an underlying budget deficit in the year to June 30, 1997 of A$5.65 billion.
Shares in construction group Costain Plc fell on Tuesday after a newspaper reported it was in breach of stock exchange listing requirements.
The stock was four pence lower at 67p by 0807 GMT.
The Times newspaper said Costain was in talks with the stock exchange because three of its shareholders hold more than 75 percent of its equity capital.
The problem has come about as a result of Costain's 74 million stg rescue package, The Times said, which left new Malaysian investor Intria with 40 percent of the shares.
Another shareholder, Kuwait's M A Kharafi & Sons, has meanwhile upped its holding to 25.2 percent of the shares.
"They've overclubbed it slightly," said one marketmaker.
The shareholders of the Polish Development Bank SA (PBR) approved an issue of up to $75 million worth of bonds to be placed on international markets, the bank said in a statement on Tuesday.
It said the shareholders decided the bonds would be dollar-denominated and its maturity would not exceed five years.
PBR said the decision on the number of tranches, the interest rate and its maturity would be decided shortly before their placement and would depend on market conditions.
WestPoint Stevens Inc said Monday its board of directors has approved the repurchase of up to one million additional shares of the company's common stock.
The repurchased shares will be used for general corporate purposes, including possible awards under the company's stock-based incentive compensation plans and the company's stock matching under its employee 401(k) plan.
The authorization includes both open market purchases as well as private transactions from time to time, the company said.
Juan Gonzalez had four RBI and Roger Pavlik threw a four-hitter as the red-hot Texas Rangers pounded the Cleveland Indians 10-3 Monday in the opener of a three-game series between division leaders.
Dean Palmer added a two-run homer, his 29th, and a sacrifice fly for the American League West leaders, who have won nine of their last 10 games.
Pavlik (14-6) walked four and struck out two en route to his seventh complete game, tying him with Toronto's Pat Hentgen for the major-league lead.
"It was a matter of the guys putting up the runs tonight," said Pavlik. "I just had to put the ball over the plate. I stayed with all my pitches and I just hope we keep this thing rolling."
Albert Belle hit his 40th homer and drove in two runs for the Indians, who had a three-game winning streak snapped. Belle became the first Indian to hit 40 homers in consecutive seasons since Rocky Colavito in 1958 and 1959.
Jack McDowell (10-8) was hammered for eight runs, eight hits and three walks in three-plus innings.
The Rangers set an A.L. record for consecutive errorless games with 15, surpassing the 1991 California Angels. The major-league mark of 16 was by the 1992 St Louis Cardinals.
Texas leads the season series 5-2 and has won its last four games against the Indians, the A.L. Central leaders.
In New York, Andy Pettitte pitched a three-hitter to become the league's first 18-game winner and Derek Jeter's two-run single snapped a fifth-inning tie as the Yankees salvaged the finale of a four-game series with a 10-4 victory over the Seattle Mariners.
Pettitte (18-7) improved to 11-2 this season when pitching after a New York loss.
Cecil Fielder, Tino Martinez and Bernie Williams homered for the Yankees, who prevented Seattle from completing its first-ever sweep at New York.
Martinez drove in five runs and Fielder had four hits for the Yankees, who won for just the third time in nine home games and snapped a four-game losing streak to Seattle.
Rafael Cormona (6-2) was rocked for six runs and 10 hits in 4 1/3 innings for Seattle, which has lost nine of 13.
For the Mariners, Jay Buhner cracked his 39th homer, a three-run shot.  Buhner, who has 114 RBI, is one behind Belle for the A.L. lead. Alex Rodriguez added his 29th homer.
The four-game series drew 181,216 fans, the most at Yankee Stadium since a four-game set against Boston in September 1993 attracted 192,937.
In Boston, Troy O'Leary's two-run single capped a three-run sixth inning as the Red Sox edged the California Angels 10-9 in a game that featured 31 hits and 11 pitchers.
O'Leary had three hits and three RBI and Reggie Jefferson went 3-for-4 with a homer and two RBI for Boston, which gained a split of the four-game series. Boston has won 12 of 16.
Kerry Lacy (1-0) gave up one unearned run and three hits in one inning for his first major-league victory. Heathcliff Slocumb, the seventh Red Sox pitcher, worked a perfect ninth for his 20th save.
Tim Salmon went 4-for-4 with a solo homer and Jorge Fabregas knocked in a career-high four runs for the Angels.
In Detroit, Ozzie Guillen and Danny Tartabull hit three-run homers in a seven-run ninth inning as the Chicago White Sox rallied for a 12-7 victory over the Tigers.
The Tigers led 7-5 entering the ninth but the White Sox sent 12 batters to the plate. Greg Norton singled twice, getting his first two major-league hits in the same inning.
Chicago has won all eight meetings with the Tigers this season, outscoring them 87-22.
Curtis Pride had a three-run homer and Andujar Cedeno added a two-run shot for the Tigers, who have lost eight in a row after winning 10 of 12.
In Kansas City, Charlie O'Brien's ninth-inning sacrifice fly scored Joe Carter, who had tripled, and Woody Williams and two relievers combined on a six-hitter, giving the Toronto Blue Jays a 2-1 victory over the Royals.
Carter had been 7-for-65 and was hitless in his first three at-bats before his triple.
At Minnesota, Jeff D'Amico (4-5) allowed four hits over a career-high seven innings to snap a personal three-game losing streak and Marc Newfield belted a three-run homer to lead the Milwaukee Brewers to a 6-1 victory over the Twins.
The Brewers have won four of their last five games after losing nine in a row. The Twins had won 10 of their last 12.
Silver still needed to clear $5.26 per ounce to push even higher after rallying to 2-1/2 month highs overnight, analysts said on Tuesday.
A helping hand from gold, which has so far ignored silver's progress, may also be a crucial element to cement further gains in both metals, they added.
"Silver is not out of the woods yet. It's still a component of a trading range. But getting up past that $5.15-$5.16 area is a positive step," said chartist Cliff Green of Trend Analysis.
Silver fixed at $5.2025 an ounce on Tuesday, the highest fixing since June 19, compared to $5.0825 a day earlier. Dealers attributed the rise to chart-driven fund buying.
Silver had been trending lower since peaking at a fix of $5.8275 in early February. Prices have been wedged in a $5.00-$5.15 range for a month.
Analyst Susan Rigg of Chart Analysis Ltd said silver's challenge to June peaks in the $5.20-$5.30 area indicated a long-absent upwards dynamic.
"I think now it is beginning to break the downtrend which has been in course since the beginning of the year, provided it can maintain its momentum," Rigg said.
But silver faced substantial supply coming in above current levels from trading earlier this year, she added.
However, clearing the $5.25 level would complete a rounding pattern, making the metal's breach of the $5.00 level in late July look like a "false breakdown", analyst Elli Gifford of Investment Research of Cambridge said in a commentary.
Then prices could be projected as high as $5.40, she said.
Green pegged silver's upside targets at $5.42 and then possibly $5.53 after clearing the $5.25-$5.26 hurdle.
Several analysts, however, said gold's less than enthusiastic response may cause silver to stumble. Bullion was indicated at $387.30/$387.80 an ounce, less than $1.00 up from Monday's London close.
The lack of response in gold was reminiscent of silver's failure to rally when gold made an attempt to pass $390 earlier this month, Green said.
"To really regenerate some interest and real momentum in these markets, we need to see gold and silver working in tandem," he added. "If gold went through $390 and silver through $5.26, then I'd be more interested in the complex as a whole."
Yen-based Tokyo precious metals futures settled firmer across the board on Tuesday, following gains in New York precious metals overnight, traders said.
Spot gold rose slightly during Asian trading hours in tandem with firmer silver prices. Bullion was quoted at $387.30/60 per ounce at the Tokyo close, against $386.90/7.40 in New York on Monday.
In very thin trade, gold futures were stuck in tight ranges throughout the day with investors sidelined in the absence of fresh incentives.
Investors were also hoping to receive some direction from the U.S. Federal Open Market Committee (FOMC) meeting on Tuesday, although interest rates are expected to be unchanged.
Silver futures ranged from 2.6 yen to 4.0 yen per 10 grams firmer, with benchmark June ending up 3.4 at 182.0 yen.
One trader predicted spot palladium prices could soon recover to $127 to $128 after recent sharp falls.
Palladium futures ranged from unchanged to nine yen per gram higher. Benchmark June stood up five at 436 yen.
Pakistan's Karachi Port Trust said it had handled 44,197 tonnes of export and import cargo in 24 hours to 7.00 a.m. (0200 GMT) on Tuesday compared to 61,456 tonnes in the same period on Monday.
Austria's biggest industrial group OMV AG reported steady first half earnings on Tuesday and said weakness in two key sectors would not prevent it from matching last year's record profit.
The oil and chemicals firm posted a four percent rise in pre-tax profit to 1.56 billion schillings ($148.9 million) while earnings before interest and tax (EBIT) declined six percent to 1.51 billion schillings. Net profit was rock steady at 1.24 billion.
Finance director Wolfgang Ruttenstorfer forecast full-year earnings would equal 1995's record 2.09 billion schillings pre-tax profit and 2.09 billion EBIT, despite wafer-thin refining margins and low plastics prices.
"If there is no downturn (in the fourth quarter) there will be room to improve our full-year result," Ruttenstorfer said.
His upbeat forecast failed to impress investors, however, and OMV shares in Vienna ended 13.9 schillings down at 1,025.
"I am suprised to see the share price down...The numbers were bang in line with our expectations," said Nick Clayton, an analyst at Kleinwort Benson in London.
James Capel analyst Jim Joseph said he had been looking for a second quarter EBIT of around 800 million schillings, however -- significantly above the 570 million OMV achieved.
"The big swing was in refining," he noted.
Refining earnings plunged 76 percent in the first six months to 0.10 billion schillings. OMV had reported a refining EBIT of 0.26 billion schillings in the first quarter.
"Current refining margins are not only unsatisfactory, they are untenable in the long term," board member Tassilo Peyrer-Heimstaett said.
OMV's plastics operations also struggled to maintain a profit as polyolefin prices hit the skids. Finance director Ruttenstorfer estimated that polyolefin revenues were down by about one billion schillings in the first half of 1996.
"We have taken a range of measures to compensate - cutting costs and increasing sales volume by 23 percent," he said.
Personnel director Walter Hatak said OMV would continue to reduce its cost base over the next few years and aimed to cut its workforce by four percent annually. OMV employed 8,663 staff on June 30, down from 10,028 at the same time last year.
Gas remained by far the biggest contributor to group earnings in the first half. EBIT was stable at 0.91 billion schillings despite a three percent decline in sales.
Chemicals earnings jumped 17 percent to 0.34 billion schillings, helped by stable prices and lower fertiliser costs. Sales dropped 38 percent to 2.63 billion schillings following the sale of 70 percent of OMV's Chemie Linz unit.
Exploration and production achieved a turnaround, posting a 0.11 billion schillings profit after last year's 0.12 billion schillings loss. OMV traced the upswing to higher crude oil prices and restructuring.
Marketing also returned to profit with an EBIT of 0.02 billion schillings after a loss of 0.06 billion in 1995. OMV said it planned to reduce the number of gasoline stations it operates in Austria over the next three years while expanding its network in neighbouring countries.
New York state officials have approved a merger of the Metropolitan Life Insurance Co and the New England Mutual Life Insurance Co, The New York Times reported on Tuesday.
The approval by the state's Department of Insurance was the last significant hurdle facing the deal.
Officials of both companies said a formal closing was scheduled for Aug 30. It will be the biggest merger in the mutual life insurance field.
Met Life, the second-biggest U.S. life insurer, is bringing about $150 billion in insurance assets. The new company will have more than $166 billion in assets, still trailing Prudential Insurance Co of America.
The Singapore share index opened down on Tuesday, but then climbed to sit slightly higher at mid morning after Wall Street's overnight gain.
Brokers said stocks in the news like Transmarco and Berger International led trading on a morning dominated by block deals.
The 30-share Straits Times Industrials Index was up 3.72 points at 2,109.38 at 0215 GMT. Market volume was 32.43 million shares with advancers ahead of decliners by 69 to 65.
Transmarco shares surged Singapore $0.45 to S$9.30 after slipping from a morning high of S$9.50. It saw block deals of 720,000 shares done between S$6.75 and S$8.00.
Some 1.54 million Transmarco shares were traded.
Berger International led actives with 5.87 million shares, with 1.87 million crossed at approximately S$1.47. Berger rose S$0.05 to S$1.59.
Jurong Engineering led the losers after announcing its interim net profit fell 26.7 percent. The share dropped 14 cents to S$3.60 on a volume of 141,000 shares.
Sumitomo Corp reiterated on Tuesday it was not aware of unauthorised trading by former star trader Yasuo Hamanaka when the London Metal Exchange (LME) made an inquiry about the firm's copper trading in late 1991.
In December 1991 Sumitomo sent a letter in reply to the LME, assuring the exchange that its copper trading was legitimate and in line with regulations, according to the text of the letter disclosed by trade sources last week.
The letter, dated December 8, was faxed to LME chief executive David King from the firm's non-ferrous metals division head Iwao Nishiumi in reply to the query.
"When we sent the reply to the LME in December 1991, we were not aware of any unauthorised trades by Hamanaka. The letter referred to Sumitomo's normal copper trading," a Sumitomo spokesman said.
The 1991 LME letter asked if Sumitomo was having any problems in executing its heavy copper transactions, he said.
The Sumitomo spokesman also said the company's then president Tomiichi Akiyama was aware of the exchange of the letters.
Banks in the Uzbek capital Tashkent said on Tuesday the government had ordered them to stop paying out cash in the national sum currency for the rest of this month, but official sources denied such an order existed.
"They gave us an order to stop paying out cash until the beginning of next month," a spokeswoman for Uzpromstroibank, told Reuters by telephone.
She said accounts held in sum had been frozen temporarily but she had no information as to whether foreign exchange accounts were affected.
A source at another bank, Pakhta Bank, also confirmed the order but could give no further details.
Late on Monday, Interfax news agency quoted a senior finance ministry official as saying cash operations had been suspended to allow the authorities to pay wages to agricultural workers. There is a shortage of cash banknotes in Uzbekistan.
A spokesman at the Central Bank of Uzbekistan denied such an order existed. "We know nothing about this order," he said.
BFGoodrich Co said on Tuesday that Westlake Monomers Corp had exercised its right to terminate an agreement to purchase BFGoodrich's chlor-alkali and olefins facilities in Calvert City, Ky., for $170 million.
BFGoodrich said the facilities have been the subject of a lawsuit and subsequent arbitration that Westlake initiated in 1993 seeking up to $350 million in damages.
According to BFGoodrich, Westlake's decision not to purchase the facilities has the effect of terminating all of its claims in the lawsuit and arbitration.
BFGoodrich said it will continue to operate the facilities, which produce chlorine, caustic soda, hydrogen, ethylene, propylene and other olefins.
NOTE - Nishikawa Keisoku Co Ltd is the full company name.
The following is a direct contribution from statistician F.O. Licht in Ratzeburg, Germany. Please address any queries to Helmut Ahlfeld on +00 49 4541 88920.
Robusta futures in London closed lower but off session lows while traders awaited a new round of US certified stocks data. Traders expected another fall in US certified coffee stocks, and therefore there was general consensus that any drawdown would have no significant impact on prices. However, it was said a fresh drawdown could continue to underpin the September/December spread in New York. September lost $10 to close at $1,678, while November shed $14 to close at $1,657. In New York expectations of another drawdown in US certified coffee stocks and buying interest from the roasting sector underpinned prices, with buying seen at the 110 cent-mark basis December. After the close it was reported that certified coffee stocks fell by 6,259 60-kg bags in the week ended August 16, to 34,516 bags.
However, this was no surprise and the fact that 19,000 bags of coffee were pending grading, or approval, at exchange warehouses was taken as bearish and it was said that this could exert some pressure on the nearby switch. However, there is no guarantee that the whole lot will be certified and it apparently did not pass in July. But even if the coffee is certified and quickly snatched up, it would show that there is still a tightness of nearby supplies and need for additional coffee, which could force the September/December spread even wider during the delivery period. Even if all 19,000 pending bags are certified, this would still be more than offset by the combined 26,000 bag drawdown seen in the past three weeks, traders said. Either way, the current ten-year low on inventories of deliverable coffee will continue to underpin the market.
INDIA - Inadequate monsoon rain in June/July is likely to hurt India's 1996/97 (October/September) coffee crop. According to trade sources production in 1996/97 could be around 3.0 million bags, down from 3.75 million bags in 1995/96. However, it was emphasized that an accurate forecast would not be possible before September.
UNITED STATES - Certified coffee stocks showed another decline during the week ended August 16. Stocks in New York fell by 759 bags (-570 bags) to 2,299 bags (3,058 bags), while stocks in New Orleans declined by 5,500 bags (-8,785 bags) to 25,351 bags (30,851 bags). Stocks in San Francisco and Miami remained unchanged at 2,000 and 4,866 bags respectively.
UNITED STATES - Roastings during the week ended August 10 totalled approximately 395,000 60-kg bags, up from 340,000 bags in the previous week and compared with 345,000 bags in the corresponding week one year ago, Coffee Publications, Inc., said. Cumulative roastings totalled 10.325 million bags, vs 10.095 million bags in the same year-ago period.
DENMARK - Denmark imported 74,098 bags of coffee in May 1996, 2.2 per cent less than was imported the same month the previous year. That brought total imports since the beginning of 1996 up to 419,300 bags, 36 per cent more than was imported the same period in 1995. Total imports in calendar year 1995 dropped by 14 per cent to 873,700 bags. Major suppliers of green coffee in January/May 1996 were Brazil (104,500 vs 120,600 bags) and Colombia (92,200 vs 69,500 bags). The country exported 41,600 bags of coffee in January/May 1996, 25 per cent more than was exported the same period in 1995. Total exports in calendar year 1995 dropped by 5.5 per cent to 91,200 bags.
Indonesian crude palm oil (CPO) prices rose on Tuesday as palm olein remained stable in the capital Jakarta, traders said.
They said a CPO tender in Medan sold for 1,175 rupiah/kg, up from the last tender of 1,170 rupiah/kg on Monday.
Palm olein in Jakarta was said stable at 1,500-10 rupiah/kg despite limited supply due to high exports this month.
"It is stable because traders are buying only small quantities to meet their needs," one trader said.
President Bill Clinton gave millions of Americans a raise on Tuesday, signing into law a bill to increase the minimum wage for the first time in five years, by 90 cents an hour to $5.15 over two years.
"For many this bill will make the difference between their ability to keep their families together and their failure to do so," Clinton said as he signed the bill surrounded by workers who earn the minimum wage and their children.
"It's about time they got a reward and today they'll get it," the president added.
The bill boosts the wage typically paid to unskilled workers in restaurants and stores by 50 cents to $4.75 on Oct. 1 and by 40 cents to $5.15 on Sept. 1, 1997. It sugarcoats the pill for the mostly small businesses that will pay the higher labour costs by handing them $22 billion in tax breaks over 10 years, paying for this in part by reimposing a 10 percent tax on airline tickets.
The passage of the minimum wage boost is a victory for Clinton, who called for the measure when he ran for president in 1992, and his fellow Democrats who forced the legislation through Congress over the objections of many Republicans.
"This is a truly remarkable piece of legislation. It is pro-work, pro-business and pro-family," Clinton said in the elaborate signing ceremony on the White House south lawn.
"This is a cause for celebration for all Americans of all parties, of all walks of life, all faiths," he added. "We have made this a real season of achievement for America."
But there were no leaders of the Republican-led Congress that passed the minimum wage legislation on hand as Clinton signed the bill into law.
In a ceremony with great fanfare including music played by the U.S. Marine band, Clinton walked to the podium through two parallel columns of American flags with the White House perfectly framed behind him.
After signing the bill with minimum wage workers and their children posed around him, he carried a small girl in a pink dress in his arms as he walked through the crowd greeting people.
Note: Full name of company is Champion Industries Inc.
Kansas and Arizona filed lawsuits against some of the biggest tobacco firms Tuesday, joining a growing list of states seeking to recover hundreds of millions of dollars for the costs of treating smoking-related illnesses.
At the same time, sources said that Michigan and Oklahoma were preparing to file similar lawsuits this week, bringing to 14 the total number of states suing the industry.
Kansas Attorney General Carla Stovall called tobacco "the most lethal consumer product ever sold" and said her state's lawsuit was warranted because of the "enormous financial burden" that the tobacco industry had shifted to Kansas taxpayers.
Philip Morris Cos. Inc., one of nine tobacco companies named in the suit, said it would vigorously defend itself against the suit, which it said had no basis in law.
Meanwhile, aides to Michigan Attorney General Frank Kelley said he would file a suit against tobacco companies on Wednesday while legal sources said Oklahoma would file suit Thursday.
In Indianapolis, meanwhile, another liability challenge to the tobacco industry headed toward a decision.
A jury was expected to begin deliberations Wednesday or Thursday in the case of Richard Rogers, an Indianapolis lawyer who began smoking at age 6 and died of lung cancer 46 years later. Rogers' widow and teen-age children are seeking unspecified damages.
Also on Tuesday, New York City's public advocate urged Mayor Rudolph Giuliani to sue the tobacco industry to recover what the city paid out for health care costs of smokers.
Public Advocate Mark Green said the city should join the group of states and the city of San Francisco in their efforts to obtain Medicaid refunds from cigarette companies.
The Rogers case in Indianapolis is similar to hundreds that have been filed across the country. Earlier this month in Jacksonville, Fla., a jury awarded $750,000 to a man who smoked for 44 years before he was stricken with lung cancer.
In that case the jury said the Lucky Strikes he smoked were a defective product and that cigarette maker Brown & Williamson Tobacco Corp., a unit of Britain's B.A.T. Industries Plc, was negligent by failing to inform the public about the health risks of smoking.
The company said it will appeal the jury decision.
The Kansas lawsuit only listed damages in excess of $50,000, but Stovall said the actual figure would probably run to hundreds of millions of dollars.
"During the course of discovery we'll be able to come up with a finite amount of money that we're claiming in terms of damages, but it's hundreds of millions of dollars ... for what the state has paid out in Medicaid," Stovall said.
Arizona Attorney General Grant Woods said his state was seeking more than $300 million in damages related to costs Arizona incurred in Medicaid costs for smokers' illnesses.
Stovall said the Kansas lawsuit suit was the broadest to date because it sought to force tobacco firms to pay for programs aimed at educating children about the hazards of smoking.
Named as defendants in the Kansas suit were RJR Nabisco Holding Corp.'s RJ Reynolds Tobacco Co.; B.A.T. and its divisions Brown & Williamson and The American Tobacco Co.; Philip Morris Co., Loews Corp.'s Lorillard Tobacco Co. Inc.; the public relations firm Hill and Knowlton, the Council for Tobacco Research, and the Tobacco Institute.
The Arizona suit also named Brooke Group Ltd.'s Liggett Group Inc. as a defendant.
Little Guingamp, who were in the French third division two years ago, reached the UEFA Cup by knocking out Russian side Rotor Volgograd in the Intertoto Cup on Tuesday.
Guingamp, beaten 2-1 in the first leg of their third and final round tie, won the second leg match 1-0 before their home fans and qualified thanks to the away goal rule.
Stephane Carnot scored the 75th minute winner direct from a corner kick.
The match attracted a remarkable 12,000 crowd in Guingamp, a small town in Brittany with a population of only 8,000.
Guingamp, who were promoted to the first division last season, became the eighth French club to qualify for this season's European club competitions.
They will join Monaco, Metz, Lens and Montpellier in the UEFA Cup. Auxerre contest the Champions' League while Paris St Germain and Nimes play in the Cup Winners' Cup.
A.G. Edwards & Sons, Inc.
Oppenheimer & Co., Inc.
Piper, Jaffray Inc.
D.A. Davidson & Co.
The future of St Kilda coach Stan Alves will depend on a wide-ranging review by the AFL club, even though he has the support of club president Andrew Plympton to lead the Saints for a fourth season. Page 44.
The Australian Rugby Union faces a bill of A$1 million-plus following the Wallabies tour of Europe later this year. Players will receive at least A$30,000 each for the seven-week trip, with the Rugby Union Players Association set to organise further talk on tour payments. Page 44.
The Auckland Warriors board will attempt to make chief executive Ian Robson sign a new contract today which aims to contain his outspoken stance in support of Super League. However, Brian Blake, the chief executive of the rugby league club's major sponsor DB Breweries, has thrown his support behind Robson. Page 44.
Test veteran David Campese will switch from his favoured fullback position to the wing to make way for 20-year-old Randwick sensation Chris Latham to take up the position in Saturday's rugby union clash against Canberra. Latham is returning from a one-game suspension. Page 43.
Former Australian opening batsman Andrew Hilditch has won a position on the Australian selection panel, filling the vacancy caused by the departure of Geoff Marsh to take up the Australian cricket coaching position. However, fellow former opening batsman Steve Smith failed in his attempt to become a New South Wales selector. Page 44.
Despite being cleared by Athletics Australia on drug charges in time to compete in the Atlanta Olympics, the International Amateur Athletic Federation believes it has a watertight case against sprinter Dean Capobianco. A date will soon be set for an arbiration hearing of the case in Monte Carlo. Page 44.
Sri Lanka's Daily News has criticised stand-in Australian cricket captain Ian Healy for making unsportsmanlike comments in his new book. The newspaper said on-field confrontations should not be publicised and Healy was just looking for some sensationalism in his book. Page C14.
Despite being down 21-16 at half-time, the Australian women's Paralympic basketball team yesterday fought back to narrowly beat the United States 31-27. Australia needed to win the game to stay in medal contention. Page C14.
After surrendering rides at yesterday's Kyneton meetings as well as today's Sandown races because of his failure to reduce his weight below 60 kg, one of Victoria's best jockeys, Danny Nikolic, announced continuing weight problems had forced him ou of the spring racing carnival. Page C16.
Melbourne chief Ian Ridley has warned the AFL that the proposed Melbourne-Hawthorn merger will fail unless key decisions are agreed to, including an extension on the salary cap in the first three years, the right to trade in the first draft and the right o choose any 44 players the new club wants. Page 76.
Despite receiving an offer from Port Power, estimated at more than A$1.2 million over four years, Footscray's best player, Chris Grant, is expected to sign a new contract within the next few days. The AFL club is believed to have offered the 23-year-old veteran of 142 games a contract worth more than A$400,000. Page 80.
Brisbane Bears president Noel Gordon could face an automatic A$2,000 fine for criticising the AFL tribunal, after lashing out at the tribunal's decisions to clear Gary Ablett, Wayne Carey and Paul Couch of charges, while suspending Brisbane player Darryl Wite for two weeks for kicking. Page 80.
The first Australian National Basketball League player to make the transition to the U.S. NBA, Shane Heal has signed for three years with the Minnesota Timberwolves for a reported A$1.5 million, after impressing Minnesota with his loyalty to NBL club the Sydney Kings. Page 74.
After losing to Newcastle last Sunday, rugby league club Sydney City will receive a boost this week with the possible return of captain Brad Fittler and the return of fullback Ivan Cleary, winger Darren Junee and second-rower Luke Ricketson. Fittler will be closely monitored at training this week to see if he is ready for an earlier-than-expected comeback from a groin injury. Page 72.
Soccer Australia president Neville Wran has been called upon to mediate in the dispute between Soccer Australia and Ericcson Cup clubs Marconi, Sydney United and Melbourne Knights over their refusal to remove European nationalist symbols from club logos. Page 72.
China has missed a golden opportunity to export corn and earn millions of dollars, and now has up to a million tonnes of the grain rotting in silos in the country's north, Far East traders said on Tuesday.
"This year is going to be a major disaster," a Hong Kong trader said.
Corn, grown predominantly in China's far northeastern provinces of Heilongjiang, Jilin and Liaoning, began moving to northern ports, particularly Dalian, around May, traders said.
"People had geared up for a huge export programme and I think the traditional northeast suppliers anticipated two million tonnes being permissioned for export," a trader in Singapore said.
Corn and rice exports were banned in December 1994 after stocks fell to frighteningly low levels in a country where the governing Communist Party bases much of its ruling mandate on availability and affordability of staple foods.
Imports soon began, totalling 5.18 million tonnes in 1995. Corn imports in the first five months of 1996 were 400,000 tonnes, customs figures show.
Expectations began building in April that China's central grain authorities would allow corn exports to take advantage of high world prices and also to ease a local surplus and push up softening domestic prices. Prices had dropped below $120 a tonne in some areas.
Word at the time from traders involved in negotiations with China's central grain reserve on what nature the exports should take -- barter or cash -- was that the corn would be sold mostly to Japan and South Korea at around $180 a tonne.
The company was applying for the right to import and export corn "in order to solve the problem of huge corn stockpiles," an official of the company said.
Official figures put 1995 corn production at 101 million tonnes. Output in 1996 has been projected by media to hit 112 million tonnes. Annual demand is 100-115 million tonnes.
A few hundred thousand tonnes of Chinese corn was sold to Japan, South Korea, Indonesia and Malaysia, or bartered for equipment supplied by Japanese food processing corporations as part of joint-venture deals, industry sources said.
China's government, however, remained adamant that the export ban had not been lifted.
Traders said that while owners of the corn stocked at northern ports such as Dalian, Yingkou and Qinghuangdao had lost money on transport, storage and deterioration, the grain was now slowly being absorbed back into the domestic market.
Shareholders of Swiss temporary employment firm Adia SA approved a merger with French-based Ecco SA, to create a new firm Adecco SA.
Shareholders voted in favour of the move at a special annual general meeting by approving a capital increase for Adia.
Adia said it had been offered 98 percent of Ecco's shares for cash or swap, paving the way for replacing Ecco stock with old and new Adia capital under the name Adecco.
(A) Represents portion of revenue attributable to the Company.
(B) Local Exchange Carriers central office.
Sri Lanka stocks closed slightly weaker on Tuesday as shares in the financial sector fell, brokers said.
The Colombo Stock Exchange all-share index closed 2.17 points down at 559.00. Turnover was 15.37 million rupees on 353,290 shares.
Lanka Orix Leasing lost 0.25 rupees to close at 105.50 rupees.
Sarinda Unamboowe of brokerage John Keells said many local investors were willing to buy blue chip stocks if prices continued to fall.
An estimated 1,821 new dwelling units were authorised for construction in July 1996, Statistics New Zealand said on Wednesday.
The trend estimate, which had been increasing since September 1995, has now turned down, it said.
The largest increases from July 1995 to July 1996 were for Manukau City, up to 208 from 137, Wellington City, up to 69 from 20, and Tauranga District, up to 129 from 91.
The largest decreases over the same period were for Queenstown-Lakes District, down to 10 from 36, Rodney District, down to 69 from 95, and Dunedin City, down to 14 from 25.
The dollar was fixed at 1.4901 marks in Frankfurt on Tuesday, after 1.4902 marks on Monday.There was no Bundesbank intervention.
Shares in Axa firmed but failed to keep pace with the CAC-40 index after a 24.5 percent increase in the insurance group's turnover for the first half.
At 1251 GMT the shares were up 2.7 francs or 0.95 percent at 286.3 francs. The CAC-40 index, in which Axa is weighted at 3.49 percent, was up 1.45 percent at 2,014.92.
Axa reported first-half turnover of 81.93 billion francs compared with 65,81 billion francs in the same period of 1995.
It said the increase primarily reflected the consolidation of Australian insurer National Mutual.
Mid-session volume of some 25,000 shares made Axa the tenth most active stock on the Paris bourse.
Brokers took on board the strong special factors surrounding consolidation in Axa's figures but said the underlying picture looked sound.
Some were surprised at the share's weakness in relation both to the market and to insurer UAP -- up 1.37 percent.
"Among the good factors is growth in life assurance," said Sami Gotrane of brokers EIFB. "Much of that is NatMut but it was also up 16 percent in Europe where there was no acquisition and up 12 percent in France...," he said.
Workers at Hyundai Mipo Dockyard Co Ltd and Hyundai Pipe Co Ltd, units of South Korea's Hyundai Group, have gone on strike over wages and working conditions, a group spokesman said on Tuesday.
Australia's National Farmers' Federation (NFF) was encouraged by the Federal government's commitment to achieve a balance in the underlying budget over the economic cycle, NFF president Donald McGauchie said.
The benefits to agriculture and to the economic community generally from tough budget measures were already apparent in recent reductions in short and long-term interest rates, he said in a statement.
The NFF welcomed retention of the diesel fuel rebate and of matching funding for research and development corporations, increased funding for the Commonwealth Scientific and Industrial Research Organisation and the A$3.4 million commitment to the "Supermarket to Asia" food export strategy, he said.
NFF was also pleased that core funding for landcare programmes would be increased.
NFF also regretted the decision to reduce funding for the Rural Industries Research and Development Corp by A$5 million and the Land and Water Resources Research and Development Corp by A$1 million.
"A good budget for the farm sector is one that gets the Australian economy moving," he said.
"Although there's no real handouts for farmers in this budget, it was a necessary budget," he said.
The farm sector welcomed confirmation that the diesel fuel rebate was largely unchanged, he said.
Some of the important farm measures would be dependent on the sale of one-third of Telstra Corp. QFF would want to work through the fine print, he said.
The disposal of Telstra, cuts to universities and Aboriginal expenditure were hard messages for Australia, but the government did not have many options, he said.
The following are monthly annualised interest rates on forward dollar premia quoted by banks and brokers at 1600 IST.
The rates are spot/one month to spot/six months.
Pacific Gas and Electric Co's (PG&E) Diablo Canyon nuclear power units were still operating at reduced capacity while a wildfire continued to burn in the nearby Los Padres national forest, the company said Tuesday.
The company said both Diablo Canyon units, with combined capacity of 2,160 megawatt (MW), were at 75 percent power.
As a precautionary measure, PG&E on Monday shifted all transmission from Diablo Canyon to just one power line after shutting two other lines that were closest to the blaze.
Diablo Canyon is at Avila Beach on the California coast.
London robusta coffee futures ended mixed after choppy trade steered by New York but outright volume was weak, traders said.
A large pile of coffee stocks pending approval at New York's Coffee, Sugar and Cocoa Exchange caused little concern after two subsequent drops in certified stocks.
News that a hefty 19,000 bags of coffee were awaiting Exchange certification exerted some pressure on the key Sept/Dec switch early in the session but the market then firmed.
Traders said while the September premium held it could continue to attract coffee for delivery.
But two days before the New York delivery period begins, the open position remained well above certified stocks. London delivery begins on September 1.
In London, the second-month benchmark November ended $4 lower at $1,653 a tonne after trading between $1,640 and $1,665. September closed up $3 at $1,680 and volume totalled 5,283 lots including large AA volume on September.
The Sept/Nov spread was trading at $20-25 in the afternoon.
Traders noted scale-up selling although neither origins nor industry were cited. Funds were also sidelined.
The consolidation was seen in line with technical signals which suggested a need to correct overbought RSI levels after last week's rally. But analysts expect the upward trend to resume.
Brazilian gross domestic product (GDP) should grow by between 5.0 and 6.0 percent in the second half of 1996 compared with the same period of 1995, a director of the government's Institute of Applied Economic Research (Ipea) said.
Considera said GDP growth in the second quarter of 1996 totalled 184 billion (corrects from 1.84 billion) reais, a record for that quarter, and he forecasted GDP for the year would be 600 billion reais.
Contributing to the second quarter's performance was a 10 percent boost in industrial output in July compared with the same month last year, he said.
He also cited growth in the number of salaries paid and the real value of salaries, and a pick-up in the construction industry linked to October and November municipal elections.
Dutch-Belgian biotechnology company Plant Genetic Systems said on Tuesday its takeover by Germany's AgrEvo GmbH would propel the two firms to the forefront of the fast-growing integrated crop production market.
"The combined strength of these two companies is second to none in this new area," Plant Genetic Systems International's chief executive office Walter De Logi told a news conference.
"(PGS) are the leaders in insect resistance and hybridization technology...and AgrEvo has the best herbicide resistance programme in place."
AgrEvo, the crop protection joint venture of German chemicals giants Hoechst (60 percent) and Schering (40 percent) said on Friday it would acquire more than 75 percent of PGS for $550 million on August 30.
It added that it planned to tender for the remaining shares in PGS on the same financial terms.
PGS is owned by a group of some 120 shareholders, for the most part institutional investors, with the majority stakeholders represented on its board and so party to the initial takeover transaction.
"The takeover will be financed in part by a cash injection from AgrEvo's parent companies with the rest being taken as a credit," Lutz Krafft, head of AgrEvo's biotechnology unit, said.
However the exact financing structure had yet to be finalised, he added.
Asked whether Hoechst and Schering would seek recourse to the capital market to finance their contribution to the deal, Krafft said "probably...but I cannot comment (on their behalf)".
Founded in 1982, PGS is specialised in genetically engineering plants for insect resistance and seed link hybridization, which boosts seed yields.
Its first-generation products, which include corn, oilseed rape and certain vegetables such as chicory, are close to being launched on the market.
AgrEvo has developed its own technology called Liberty Link for weed control. Its genetically modified oilseed rape is already being sold in Canada and it plans to launch genetically engineered corn next year.
De Logi said the two companies' activities were highly complementary, with little or no overlap, and they shared the same strategic vision.
"The integration process should be very smooth and very fast," he added.
While PGS was currently still loss-making it should break even within two years, De Logi said.
"The losses have been very reasonable for a bio-tech company," he said. "There has been a cash drain of some $6.5 million a year, but this has ramped up to $13 million in recent years as the products are coming close to market."
AgrEvo and PGS reckon the market for new biotechnologically engineered plant characteristics will mushroom to some $6 billion worldwide by 2005 from "virtually nothing" at present.
"Ten years from now we will be the single most important entity in this new way of agriculture," De Logi said.
Mexican telecommunications firm Grupo Domos, which has been hit by U.S. penalties for business ties with Cuba, said on Monday that it had not yet been officially notified of the State Department's ruling.
"We are awaiting the letters so that we can emit an opinion," Domos spokesman Hector Cuellar said in a telephone interview from Monterrey, northern Mexico. "If they were sent today, they should arrive soon."
On Monday, the U.S. government said it would send letters to some six top Domos executives notifying them that they would be banned from the United States under the controversial Helms-Burton law if within 45 days the firm did not "divest" its business in Cuba.
The law, which has been angrily protested by Mexico, Canada and several European countries, was aimed at tightening 35-year-old U.S. sanctions against Cuba.
It threatened penalties against foreign investors deemed to be "trafficking" in properties confiscated by the Cuban government that were formerly owned by U.S. nationals or Cubans who later became U.S. citizens.
Domos, based in Monterrey, owns some 37 percent of Cuba's national telephone company, which was confiscated from a unit of the U.S. company ITT after Fidel Castro seized power in 1959.
Cuellar said that prior to the ruling, Domos CEO Javier Garza Calderon had said the company planned to continue its business in Cuba, arguing that Domos "does not own any properties (in Cuba) that were once confiscated."
He said Domos paid $700 million for its stake in the phone company in 1994, and later sold 25 percent of its share to Italian telecommunications firm STET SpA for $291 million. STET has been warned by the United States it could also face penalties under the Helms-Burton law.
Cuellar said the telephone business had boomed in Cuba in recent years. Calls have skyrocketed from some 400 a day in 1994 before the Clinton administration opened up phone traffic between Cuba and the United States, to about 60,000 a day.
The price per call has dropped from around $7.80 per minute to $1.20 a minute over the same period, and Domos nets around $120 million a year from its Cuban investment, he said.
The U.S. trade surplus in agricultural commodities was $1.741 billion in June, down from a revised $1.879 billion in May, the Commerce Department said Tuesday.
In its monthly trade report, Commerce pegged farm exports at $4.276 billion in June, down from $4.723 billion in May. Imports were $2.535 billion, compared with $2.844 billion the previous month.
The cumulative surplus in farm trade was $13.667 billion in the first six months of the year, compared with $11.400 billion in the same period last year.
In June, the value of U.S. corn exports fell to $640 million from $885 million in May, and wheat exports fell to $448 million from $475 million. Soybean exports rose to $430 million from $352 million, the department said.
Imports of vegetable oils and fats fell in June to $110 million from $157 million in May.
June freight traffic at Vancouver International Airport was 20 percent higher than June 1995, led by a one-third gain in imports, the airport authority said.
Total freight tonnage, excluding mail, reached 18,487 in June 1996, compared with 15,404 in June 1995, it said.
June import tonnage was 8,458, compared with 6,353 a year earlier, an increase of 33.1 percent.
June exports were 10,029 tonnes, up 10.8 percent.
June also marked the first month of full operations for the airport's new international passenger terminal, built to enhance Vancouver's goal to become a major Pacific Rim gateway.
For the first half of 1996, Vancouver handled 8.4 percent more freight, excluding mail, than in the first half of the preceding year. Total freight tonnage reached 90,778.
Imports led the way, rising 15.5 percent to 41,853 tonnes. Exports rose 2.9 percent to 48,925 tonnes.
New services and increased flights by airlines using Vancouver helped spur freight traffic growth. Air Canada operated four weekly Boeing 747 combi flights to Hong Kong during June, a route it inaugurated last December.
Also, Canadian Airlines International operated new passenger flights to Kuala Lumpur in conjunction with Malaysian Airlines and boosted service to Nagoya and Beijing.
Philippine interbank call loan rates rose for the second straight day on Tuesday to 11.84375 percent from 11.0625 as most banks were experiencing a temporary tightness in liquidity, traders said.
Rates ranged from a high of 12.78125 percent to a low of 11.0. Volume thinned to 22.244 billion pesos from 26.086 billion.
Since last week, banks had been aggresively buying long-term bills in view of the expected drop in inflation and consequently, interest rates.
This view was reinforced Tuesday when the central bank cut its rate by 0.125 percentage point each on its term reverse repos of one to two months, traders said.
New Zealand's Debt Management Office said on Tuesday the government's domestic bond programme would be halved to NZ$1 billion for the 1996/97 fiscal year after the sale of state-owned Forestry Corp.
The government said earlier its net proceeds from the sale to Fletcher Challenge, Brierley Investments and China's Citic would be NZ$1.6 billion.
The DMO's announcement confirmed a statement it issued last May on the bond programme implications of a Forestry Corp sale.
The reduction will be implemented by reducing the volume of bonds sold in upcoming tenders to NZ$100 million each, beginning with the August 29 tender, the DMO said.
Susan McDougal, a former business partner of President Bill Clinton, was sentenced on Tuesday to two years in prison for her fraud convictions in the Whitewater trial.
U.S. District Judge George Howard handed down three concurrent 24-month prison terms and an additional three years probation for her role in a fraudulent loan scheme tied to the failed Whitewater land deal.
"The court is persuaded it will take Mrs. McDougal out of circulation for a reasonable period of time and afford her the opportunity to do some reflective thnking," Howard said.
McDougal, 41, was convicted in May on four charges relating to a fraudulent $300,000 business loan she was given in 1986. Prosecutors alleged Clinton pressured an Arkansas banker to give McDougal that loan, but the president denied under oath any involvement in the deal.
Defence attorneys portrayed McDougal as a naive young woman at the time of the offences and said she unthinkingly followed the instructions of her ex-husband James McDougal, an Arkansas businessman.
"He was always my teacher and my mentor ... everything Jim had done always seemed right to me," Susan McDougal said in pleading for leniency. "I am truly sorry."
Susan and James McDougal were business partners with the president and first lady Hillary Rodham Clinton in the failed Whitewater real estate venture which lies at the heart of an independent investigation into Clinton's personal and political finances.
Apart from the prison sentence, Susan McDougal also was ordered to pay restitution of $300,000 plus interest to the U.S. Small Business Adminstration, which had insured the illegal loan.
James McDougal, 56, was to have been sentenced on Monday but won a temporary reprieve because he was cooperating with the team of independent counsel Kenneth Starr. He faced up to 84 years in prison for his conviction on 18 charges of fraud and conspiracy.
Former Arkansas Gov. Jim Guy Tucker, who was not a partner in the Whitewater deal but was convicted along with the McDougals on fraud and conspiracy charges in May, was sentenced to four years probation and fines of more than $300,000 on Monday.
Tucker, who resigned his office in July, avoided jail time because of a life-threatening liver problem that physicians said had a 50 percent chance of killing him within two years if he did not get a liver transplant.
MBIA Insurance Corp said it has qualified for bond insurance the following 17 municipal issues scheduled for competitive sale today.
--Eugene, Ore., $18 million of electric utility revenue bonds.
--Lafayette Redevleopment Authority, Ind., $3.36 million of leasehold revenue bonds.
--Riley Elem. S.D. Corp., Ind., $11.720 million first mortgage revenue bonds.
--Columbus, Miss., $1.950 million spec. assess. bonds.
--Gulfport, Miss., $8.5 million public improvement general obligation bonds.
--Mississippi State $60 million of GO bonds.
--Hawthorne, N.J., $5.933 million GO improvement bonds.
--Salem County, N.J., $140,000 County College bonds.
--Salem County, N.J., $4.555 million GOs.
--Gloversville City SD, N.Y., $7.5 million of school district bonds.
--Sherburne-Earleville, N.Y., $1 million of GO school bonds.
--Fort Mill S.D. No. 4, S.C., $24 million GOs.
--DeSoto, Texas, $6.380 million GOs.
--Lufkin, Texas, $3.650 million GOs.
--Taylor County, Texas, $7.940 million GOs.
--Virginia Housing Development, Va., $5.645 million (tax) housing bonds and $12.890 million housing bonds.
Australian Mark Woodforde, the 15th seed, was beaten Monday by compatriot and long-time doubles partner Todd Woodbridge in the first round of the Canadian Open.
Woodbridge, ranked 43rd in the world, defeated Woodforde, ranked 30th, 6-3 7-5. Woodforde was one of two seeded players to lose on the opening day of the tournament.
Tenth-seeded Arnaud Boetsch of France was upset by unseeded Andrea Gaudenzi of Italy 3-6 7-5 6-2.
Alberto Berasategui of Spain, seeded 11th, needed just 50 minutes to dispatch 50th-ranked Filip Dewulf of Belgium 6-4 6-0 and another Spaniard, unseeded Alex Corretja, defeated France's Guy Forget 6-3 3-6 6-3.
Corretja, ranked 32nd, plays sixth-seeded American MaliVai Washington in the second round. Washington and the rest of the top eight seeds were given first-round byes.
Australian Patrick Rafter survived a hotly contested opening set against Spain's Carlos Costa and won 7-6 (8-6) 6-2.
Woodbridge has beaten Woodforde in their last four meetings and holds a 5-2 career advantage.
Top-seeded in the doubles at the Canadian Open and ranked first in the world, the Australian pair are Olympic gold medallists and four-time defending champions at Wimbledon.
"We hate it when we play each other," Woodforde said of their singles matchup. "We're both nervous because we respect each other and appreciate each other's games."
Woodbridge had a double-break point to lead 3-0 in the second set after taking the first set with a service break in the eighth game.
But Woodforde saved both break points and then won four games in a row, capitalising on three Woodbridge double faults in the sixth game to go ahead 4-2.
"When Mark got up 4-2 and started to be more aggressive, I got a little tentative," Woodbridge said. "I was lucky to get back to 4-4 straightaway. Mark let me back in that second set with a couple of errors."
The Corretja-Forget match, played on the hard-court surface at the National Tennis Centre in Toronto, featured many exciting and extended rallies.
"He didn't play well in the first set but then he played better in the second set and I began to doubt myself," said Corretja.
"Then I played an unbelievable game, three passing shots and a topspin lob, to break him for 5-3 in the third set."
"He hit four winners and played a perfect game to break me so I can't be too upset," said the 58th-ranked Forget, who was playing his first match in a month after a back ailment.
Corretja and Forget are two of a record 36 Europeans in the 56-player Canadian Open field.
With this year's tournament date changed from late July to a week before the U.S. Open because of the Olympics, the Europeans were more inclined to play in Toronto in order to get ready for Flushing Meadows.
However, the top four Americans -- Pete Sampras, Michael Chang, Andre Agassi and Jim Courier, regulars at this ATP Tour Super Nine event -- have decided to skip it this year.
The tournament's top seed is second-ranked Thomas Muster of Austria.
Peru's oil and derivatives trade deficit rose 14.7 percent in the first half of the year to $148 million, compared with same period last year, the Central Reserve Bank said Tuesday.
In the first six months of the year, imports of oil and derivatives rose 37 percent to $334 million, while exports rose 63 percent to $186 million, compared with the same period in 1995.
In June, the oil and derivatives deficit was $24 million, compared to $11 million in the same month last year.
June's imports were $59 million, down 17 percent compared to the same month last year. The reduction was the result of a three percent increase in national oil production and a three percent reduction in demand for gasoline, the bank said.
Meanwhile exports in June rose to $37 million from $28 million in the same month last year.
Peru's oil deficit swelled 134 percent to $323.2 million in 1995 compared with $138 million the previous year, according to the Energy and Mines Ministry.
New Zealand's Mercury Energy said on Tuesday it had raised its stake in Power New Zealand Ltd to 31.8 percent from 30.6 percent.
Mercury said it had bought 312,048 ordinary shares between December 21, 1995 and August 13, 1996 at $4.50 per share. It bought 1,598,184 shares at $8.00 during a stand in the market from August 14-19.
Queensland Labor Party Senator, Mal Colston, has resigned from the Labor Party and will serve out the rest of his term as an Independent.
Senator Colson has been in the Senate since 1975 and will end his term in 1999.
He says his voting patterns will be influenced by his long held Labor beliefs, but also by an acceptance that the present Government has an electoral mandate to pursue a number of issues. The Senator has given no reason for his resignation.
Meanwhile Federal Opposition leader, Kim Beazley, says he hopes Senator Colston will change his mind.
Labour sources say Senator Colston's differences with the ALP are personality, rather than policy based.
The cost of yesterday's riot at Parliament House in Canberra has been estimated at nearly A$100,000.
About A$75,000 damage was done to the foyer and forecourt when protestors smashed down doors.
Once inside they rampaged through the Parliament gift shop, where it will cost A$15,000 to repair the damage and replace looted goods.
The rioters were a breakaway group from a much larger peaceful protest which ACTU Secretary Bill Kelty called the most successful in the country's history.
That remark's angered deputy Prime Minister, Tim Fischer, and Deputy Labor Leader, Gareth Evans is furious at the violence.
Organisers of an Aboriginal protest in Canberra have stressed the contrast between their peaceful protest today and yesterday's storming of parliament house.
One thousand Aborigines have conducted a march to Parliament House and staged a rally on the lawn, in protest of Federal government budget cuts to indigenous affairs.
Aboriginal representative Charlie Perkins says the 1,000 protestors have gathered from all over Australia.
A self confessed paedophile has told the New South Wales police Royal Commission that up to 100 paedophiles are active in Sydney.
Codenamed KR-248, the man says that in most cases boys are willing partners looking for friendship, care, or money to survive on the streets.
KR-248 told the Commission that children could be picked up at most beaches or any public toilets.
He says there are four main areas where paedophile rings operate around Sydney including one with up to 50 members based in the city.
An appeal against a decision to allow parents of intellectually disabled people to sue the Victorian Government is underway.
Parents of residents at Melbourne's Kew Cottages won the right to take action, after a Supreme Court Judge last year refused to strike out a major part of the writ.
They want the State Government to improve living conditions at the cottages, which they say have been the subject of reduced budgets since 1986.
But the State Government has launched action in the Court of Appeal, arguing the Courts don't have jurisdiction to querie how Governments spend money.
The Court's been told a decision to provide funding to any service is purely an act of Government.
Victoria is to have a multi-million dollar seal viewing centre at Phillip Island.
Premier Jeff Kennett says the two stage development, off the Nobbies, will make the Island one of Australia's leading eco-tourist destinations.
The Seal Rocks Sealife Centre, will feature an information and dining area, and provide giant video screens showing Australia's largest colony of fur seals.
Mr Kennett says stage two involves an underwater viewing tunnel leading to a tower above the Seal Rocks, but he says that project is subject to a strict environmental effects study.
In North Queensland, a traffic jam of whales and yachts is converging in the Whitsundays.
More than 100 yachts from around the country are preparing for the Hamilton Island Race Week series.
Race official Ian Grant is expecting some close encounters this weekend, as migrating whales also gather to breed.
In cricket, West Indian Brian Lara, England's Devon Malcolm and New Zealand's Sir Richard Hadlee are expected to take part in former test cricketer David Boon's testimonial match in November.
Two one-day games will be held, one at the Melbourne Cricket Ground on November the twelfth and at the NTCA Ground in Launceston on November 14.
Former Test captain, Greg Chappell, says current and former Australian players plus Tasmanian-born AFL players will be among those taking part.
Standard & Poor's said on Tuesday it had assigned an AAA rating to 30 billion yen worth of yen/Australian dollar dual-currency samurai bonds issued by the Council of Europe Social Development Fund.
The bonds mature on August 28, 1998.
Based on COMEX settlement prices, merchant copper cathodes for August shipment were quoted at a nominal 93.70 to 94.20 cents a lb.
No. 2 scrap copper was quoted at a nominal 74 cents a lb, down 1.0 cents from August 19th.
Pirates attacked a yacht moored off the southern toe of Italy and forced six Frenchwomen on board to hand over jewels and money, police said on Tuesday.
A police spokesman said the British-registered Renalo was boarded by a group of men, one armed with a pistol, who reached the yacht in a small motorboat just hours after it had anchored off the village of Scilla.
Around $2,600 worth of foreign currency was stolen along with the jewellery, the police said. The women and the Renalo's crew were not injured.
Air France increased its share of global air cargo tonnage handled at the two Paris airports, Charles de Gaulle and Orly, in the first six months of 1996 compared to 1995 as a whole, Aeroport de Paris (ADP) figures show.
Air France's share of ADP January-June cargo tonnage totalling 538,462 tonnes was 55.6 percent compared to 53.8 percent in 1995.
In second place was Federal Express Corp which increased its share from 5.9 percent last year to 6.7 percent in the first half of 1996.
Thaksin Shinawatra, the tycoon-turned-politician leader of the Palang Dharma Party which recently pulled out of the coalition government, is showering his former colleagues with expensive gifts.
Thaksin, who made a fortune in telecommunications and computers before turning to politics, is known for lavishing his friends and colleagues with expensive presents.
Last week, Thaksin said he sent a 145,800 baht ($5,832) bottle of Romanee-Conti wine to Prime Minister Banharn Silpa-archa after pulling the Palang Dharma out of Banharn's 13-month-old coalition government.
He said he sent the wine to apologise for leaving the government, which is now facing a no-confidence debate.
On Tuesday, deputy prime minister Somboon Rahong surprised bystanders when he drove up to government house in a brand new black Daimler car.
"It is a present given to me by Thaksin," Somboon, a member of Banharn's Chart Thai party, told reporters.
"He just said that he liked me, then gave me this. It is not appropriate for me to turn down a present given to me by a millionaire," he said, adding that he did not know the price of the present but estimated it was worth about six million baht.
Russian security supremo Alexander Lebed plans to travel to the Chechen capital Grozny on Wednesday, Itar-Tass news agency reported.
It quoted informed sources in the Kremlin's powerful Security Council as saying Lebed, the council's secretary, planned "to adopt urgent measures on defusing the extreme tension that has appeared in recent days". The agency gave no further details, but said Lebed remained committed to a peaceful solution to the Chechen conflict.
Calcutta shares, despite a mild mid-session recovery, ended lower on Tuesday against steady selling pressures, brokers said.
They said that large foreign institutional investors (FIIs) aggressively sold blue-chips like Reliance Industries, TISCO, L&T and State Bank.
"The downward journey of scrip prices faltered as some shares were finding tentative downside support. But current support levels are unlikely to hold since there is no fresh buying support," said Aprajit Sharma of brokers Harsh Himatsingka.
Brokers said that large investors were disappointed that the government had not announced any sops for the capital markets in last month's budget.
by lead manager Kredietbank.
Daily Mail and General Trust Plc expanded its informaiton publishing interests on Tuesday by paying 9.2 million stg for a 40 percent stake in the British Study Group Ltd.
The deal allows the group to become a wholly owned subsidiary by the year 2002 based on a payment which is related to the company's performance. This would value the acquisition at 23 milion stg in total.
DMGT has paid three million cash and the balance through the issue of loan notes.
The group made a 1.3 million 1995 pretax profit.
Ernesto Saqui warns visitors to the world's first jaguar reserve: "You may not see them but they will be watching you. They are everywhere."
For these legendary hunters, revered by the Mayan Indians for their prowess and power, are notoriously elusive prowlers in the lush forests where they roam free.
"They are potentially capable of killing humans but they have never done so," says the director of the Cockscomb Basin wildlife sanctuary in the heart of the lush Central American land of Belize wedged between Mexico and Guatemala.
Saqui also warns the 7,000 eager visitors who trek into the sanctuary every year to experience the jaguar's jungle habitat that sightings of the magnificent beast are very rare indeed.
"Jaguars are very shy as they are solitary and elusive. They prefer to be away from people," said Saqui, sitting outside his simple thatched cottage where he lives at the edge of the sanctuary.
But he has seen the raw power of the jaguar up close. "It took my dog in the middle of the night. I saw the jaguar under the lights but couldn't get out in time to save the dog," he said.
He has no qualms about bringing up his two tiny children in this Garden of Eden that is an environmentalist's paradise.
"They are 100 times safer here than they would be on the streets of New York. The natural world offers such peace," said the Mayan Indian who was once a schoolteacher but now runs the 100,000 acre (40,500 hectare) sanctuary.
He is also forgiving: "Most jaguars that prey on domestic animals are sick. They may have a broken canine (tooth) or a paralysed eye so they turn to easier prey."
He is in awe of the creature that means so much to his Mayan people.
"In the last year, I have seen three jaguars. Whenever you see one, there is a great sense of satisfaction. It is something sacred and very personal.
"For the Mayans, the jaguar symbolises power. We never used to kill jaguar except for the village induction of a leader. The blood was smeared on the head of the chief to give him strength," he said.
The Belize government banned jaguar hunting in 1974 but ranchers and hunters kept poaching them.
Then in 1982, pioneering young wildlife researcher Alan Rabinowitz came from New York to track where the jaguar might be thriving most.
In two years of research, he managed to radio-collar six jaguars. He almost lost his life when the plane he was flying in to track them crashed into the jungle. He was lucky to escape with just a broken nose.
Armed with his scientific data, Belize opened the world's first jaguar reserve in 1986.
"At the time there were just 20 left in the region. Now there are 60 to 80," said Saqui with a justifiable note of pride in his voice.
But he warned: "In future the jaguar could become extinct in some areas, particularly in Guatemala and El Salvador. Development leads to destruction of its habitat."
The jaguar, the largest spotted cat in the world, once roamed the Americas from Arizona to Argentina. Saqui said that today environmentalists can give no accurate figures on how many are left.
With its dish-like eyes and sight six times more acute than a human's, the jaguar is a fearsome killing machine.
With its lithe body, sharp pointed teeth and powerful shoulders, its name derived from the Mayan Indian word "yaguar" which means "He who kills with one leap."
Walking through its rainforest habitat, it is easy to imagine you are being watched as dappled sunlight filters through the thick canopy of trees.
"The jaguars are everywhere. They follow you and are curious. They see you more than you see them," Saqui said.
After a day spent walking the trails and bathing under forest waterfalls, visitors can spend the night in simple and cheap cabins.
The first noise to greet you at dawn is the distinctive roar of the black howler monkeys which have been successfully re-introduced into the sanctuary after being virtually wiped out by yellow fever, poachers and a devastating hurricane.
Saqui wants to convince the world that what he sees as a corner of heaven on earth is worth saving.
"If we are not careful, there will be nothing left. I would not want to live anywhere else. It is very, very peaceful. To live at the edge of a forest is wonderful."
Israel successfully test fired a U.S.-financed Arrow 2 anti-missile missile over the Mediterranean on Tuesday, officials said.
They said the Arrow 2, launched from the coastline in central Israel, apparently hit its target which was fired four minutes earlier at about 3 p.m. (12 GMT) from a ship.
"Initial data indicates that the missile performed as planned," a Defence Ministry statement said.
"The results indicate that the Arrow's sensors locked in on the target, its warhead was activated and the target was hit."
It was "a big success" said Moshe Keret, director-general of Israel Aircraft Industries in charge of the project. Keret said official confirmation as to whether the target was actually destroyed would take a few hours.
Tuesday's flight was the third of the Arrow 2 but the first intercepting a missile. Keret said additional test launches would be carried out.
"Maybe not in the immediate future but when the system will be operational, maybe in about two years, that will certainly be an important and central layer in the defence system of the state of Israel."
Tension has been rising between Israel and Syria over stalled Middle East peace talks since the May election of Likud leader Benjamin Netanyahu.
Development of the Arrow was launched in the late 1980s and U.S. funding was approved as part of the Strategic Defence Intitiative, known as Star Wars.
Most components of that initiative have since been scrapped but the 1991 Gulf War, in which Iraq fired dozens of Scud missiles at Israel, gave the Arrow new impetus with the United States ploughing nearly $500 million for initial development.
The project cost is estimated at $1.2 billion.
Israel spent several years developing and testing the Arrow 1 which it hoped would do a better job at hitting incoming missiles than the U.S. Patriot missiles, with a range of 10 km (six miles), deployed in Israel during the Gulf War.
The target missile used in Tuesday's test-launch was a modified Arrow 1 missile with a radar cross section and payload to match that of a Scud missile, said the U.S. Army Program Executive Office Air and Missile Defence in a statement.
"The Arrow program is a joint U.S./Israel effort to develop an interceptor missile for the Arrow Weapons System. The information gained from the program has potential application for several U.S. missile defence programs," the statement said.
Australia and New Zealand Banking Group Ltd filed Tuesday with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission a shelf registration for up to $1 billion in debt securities.
When combined with previous registrations, the Banking Group will have up to $1.3 billion in debt securities.
Net proceeds will be used for general corporate purposes and, in the case of subordinated debt securities, to strengthen the capital base, the filing said.
Thai domestic maize prices paid by feed producers eased to an average 4.28 baht/kg this week from 4.42 a week ago on increased supplies from harvests, traders said on Tuesday.
A major feed producer said fresh Thai harvests, mostly from eastern Prachinburi and Chantaburi provinces, had raised domestic supply while parts of new crops from northeast and north central Thailand have started to arrive.
"The fresh harvest is adequate to allow most feed plants to open for operation since early August," she said.
Thailand's projected maize crop of four million tonnes from its 1996/97 (July/June) will continue harvesting until December.
Bangkok soymeal prices firmed slightly to 9.70 baht/kg from 9.60 a week ago because no additional Brazilian imports had been made this month, traders said.
"We expect to receive about 5,000-6,000 tonnes from Brazil in mid-September. I estimate total imports next month at over 10,000 tonnes," an official at Bangkok Produce said.
Feed producers said soymeal fetched a higher price this week as it was mostly made from fresh domestic high-protein soybean that cost more than imported soymeal.
Soymeal prices should ease in late September or early October when domestic soybean harvests start reaching the market.
Dutch bonds finished lower for the second successive day but off their lows after July money supply data kept alive hopes of a cut in Germany's repo rate.
Dealers said trading action, dominated by interbank players, trailed off after a morning flurry when Germany announced annual M3 growth slowed to 8.6 percent from 9.6 percent in June.
They said the market was awaiting tonight's meeting of the Federal Open Market Committee, which is not expected to change U.S. interest rates, and Thursday's Bundesbank meeting.
The new Dutch 5.75 percent September 2002 tap issue closed at 110.19/27, below today's opening sale price of 100.30, as the Finance Ministry announced it had raised 2.3 billion guilders since sales began on Monday at a price of 100.60.
Analysts believe the ministry aims to raise up to 10 billion guilders through this issue but one dealer said it may have to await market developments this week to achieve its target.
Dealers also reported demand through the day for Dutch state loans maturing between 2000 and 2004, but they saw little change in the shape of the yield curve or the spread to bunds.
The European Commission said on Tuesday it had approved the aquisition by Germany's Klockner Stahl-und-Metallhandel GmbH of 62 percent of Arus Distribution Industrielle SA.
However, the Commission said it statement that the approval under the European Union's merger regulation concerned only those products not covered by the European Coal and Steel Community (ECSC) Treaty.
"Essentially, these are tubes, cut and bent reinforcing bars, hollow sections, supplies to the manufacturing and construction industries, and aluminium," it said.
It said that the ECSC aspects would be dealt with in a separate decision. It did not elaborate.
The Bundesbank published the following data relating to M3 money supply in July.
4) DEPOSITS OF FED. GOVT.
Gulf War hero Colin Powell lent his prestige and popularity to the Republican presidential ticket on Tuesday, making a surprise appearance alongside Bob Dole and Jack Kemp as they campaigned among U.S. war veterans for a strong national defence.
The Veterans of Foreign Wars convention in Kentucky was a natural setting for Powell, a retired general who helped lead U.S. troops to victory in Operation Desert Storm in the Gulf, and for Bob Dole, who nearly died in the Second World War.
"One of the great lessons of history is that if America is prepared to fight many wars and greater wars and any wars that come, then we will fight fewer wars and lesser wars and perhaps no wars at all," said Dole.
Dole accused the Clinton administration of spending too little on modernising U.S. forces and meeting the needs of U.S. troops. He said nearly 17,000 junior enlisted personnel needed food stamps to make ends meet last year.
"That should not happen if you wear the American uniform," Dole said in a speech that outlined his career-long commitment to veterans.
Powell, apparently trying to keep the spotlight on the Republican candidate and not on rumours that he may be secretary of state in a Dole administration, said he and Dole "haven't had any discussion" about a cabinet post and the priority now was to "get the team elected."
With his well-received speech at the Republican convention in San Diego last week, the retired general and best-selling author helped the party project an image of tolerance and inclusion. Republicans hope Powell, a moderate on social issues, can reel in the independents Dole needs if he is to oust President Bill Clinton from the White House on Nov. 5.
Powell had to remind well-wishers who had come out to greet Dole at the Louisville airport, "I'm not running for anything." Introducing Dole at the VFW rally, he praised him as a champion of a strong defence who "proudly wears a purple heart" for his war wounds and "now offers himself for service as the leader of this great nation."
"His vision includes providing leadership to the world in a way that will reassure and comfort our friends and put our enemies on clear notice that we have the strength and the will to defend ourselves and to defend our interests," he added.
Before heading back to Washington, Dole, Kemp and Powell, who were not accompanied by their wives on Tuesday, paid a brief visit to the Ladies Auxiliary meeting at a nearby auditorium where the women had been unable to see or hear the main event.
"They've never come to the ladies before, this is a first, first, first," said a delighted Marion Watson, from Louisville, chuckling as the former Kansas senator told the crowd, "You'll get a tax cut whether you want one or not."
Opinion polls show that the harmonious Republican convention and the energy Kemp infused into the campaign helped Dole cut into Clinton's lead, although Clinton, who at 50 is 23 years younger than Dole, still was ahead and the latest polls showed the gap widening again, to 12 points.
Dole and his running mate Kemp have made the economy the centrepiece of their joint campaign, pledging to cut income taxes by 15 percent and balance the federal budget without harming veterans or the elderly. But they have given scant details of how they plan to do that.
"It's simply a matter of presidential will. If you've got it, you can do it, and I've got it and I will do it,"  said Dole, who in his 35 years in Congress took part in many budget struggles.
Aflatoxin, a potent carcinogen, has been discovered in much of the corn harvested along the Texas Gulf Coast, and Texas grain sources said more may be found as the harvest moves north.
"It is a high level (of contamination) and it is serious," said George Latimer, the Texas state chemist based in College Station, Tx. "The levels of aflatoxin are of considerable concern throughout Texas."
Jordanian share prices improved on Tuesday after security forces eased a curfew in the southern town of Karak after protests against bread price hikes and the government proclaimed the crisis over.
The official Amman Financial Market 60-share index firmed 0.33 percent to 139.08 from 138.63 points on Monday but failed to jump over the 140 point psychological barrier.
Dealers said they expected the upward trend to continue now that the government appeared in control following riots that broke out in Karak on Friday and spread to nearby towns, forcing King Hussein to send in his army to restore order.
"Investor confidence is starting to pick up," said one dealer. "And the more things get under control the better the market will do even though business levels before the unrest were not that great."
The riots, the worst since 1989 unrest, were fuelled by the government's decision on Tuesday to almost double prices of bread in line with IMF-agreed economic reforms.
The market fell beyond the 140 point psychological barrier on Saturday and continued to ease before picking up.
A total of 153,851 shares changed hands in a bigger 515,929 dinar turnover in a cash-squeezed market, with no demand from foreign investors.
The market first broke the 140-point barrier at the end of June and has since slid to levels not reached since 1993. But it began a gradual pickup in trade at the start of last week.
Investors are eyeing half-year results and any signs of a possible easing of interest rates after prices dropped to near bottom levels.
The Pearl Investable Index -- an independent index of the 45 best-performing shares from the official market -- firmed 0.09 percent to 79.85 points. It was 16.40 percent down on last year.
Along with lack of institutional support, the market has suffered since the start of the year from a liquidity crunch blamed on high interest rates by the state to protect the dinar.
Large investors and institutions have avoided the market, which has fallen over 20 percent this year, with most of the trading dominated by floor traders.
Banks dominated on a 259,445 dinar turnover and an index rise of 0.67 percent, industrials had a 210,595 dinar turnover and an index fall of 0.09 percent while services had a 43,395 dinar turnover and an index rise of 0.22.
A total of 150,042 shares worth 85,779 dinars changed hands in weak trade in the parallel market.
American Management Systems said Tuesday it received an $8.5 million, one-year contract to develop a customer-care and billing system for Microcell Telecommunications Inc.
The customer-care and billing system, known as Spectrum2000, will be used to support Microcell's digital PCS 1900 communications protocol.
PCS is a new generation of wireless communications systems integrating a wide range of fully digital, high quality communications functions.
Microcell is a privately owned Canadian company.
Lanka Ceramic, once a big player in Sri Lanka's domestic market but plagued with labour and other problems, is making a rapid turnaround, managing director Jagath Peiris said on Tuesday.
The company suffered a crippling strike and a nine-month shutdown at its Piliyandala factory in suburban Colombo. The strike was resolved after the company pruned its workforce.
"Piliyandala has been operating again since January 1996. We have also begun to motivate labour, and started aggressive export marketing," said Peiris, who came to Lanka Ceramic in May 1995 from Dankotuwa Porcelain, where he was managing director.
Lanka Ceramic has two other factories outside the capital.
Management structures were being changed in all factories and at Colombo's head office to make them more flexible and responsive, Peiris said.
"We are getting on track and you will see results in 18 months to two years because there are no quick fixes."
Analysts expect net profits of around 45 million rupees (about $818,000) for the half year to June 30, an increase from 17 million rupees (about $310,000) in the first half of 1995.
"Our 12-month forecasts for the company are 73.8 million rupees ($1.34 million), but we are reviewing the figures in line with new developments," said Avanka Herath, an analyst at brokerage Jardine Fleming.
Lanka Ceramic's net profit in 1995 was 39.56 million rupees (about $720,000).
The company is working to regain its local market share. It was a state-owned monopoly venture before 1992.
Local market share eroded when Sri Lankans developed a taste for porcelain in preference to ceramics.
"This happened because we also sell other people's porcelain through our network of 200 dealers and 14 shops," Peiris said. "Naturally, our sales staff earned more commissions by selling pricey porcelain than our own less expensive ceramics."
The company now motivates sales staff by offering more incentives to sell Lanka Ceramic products.
Peiris said an average monthly wage of 2,700 rupees is inadequate in comparison to 7,000 rupees at Dankotuwa Porcelain, the star among Sri Lanka's five listed ceramic companies.
"We have compiled an export marketing-linked productivity incentive for the workforce to motivate them to manufacture exportable products," said Peiris.
Peiris has re-established contacts with foreign buyers from his time at Dankotuwa.
"We are doing many new self-coloured, printed and hand-painted items to fall in line with what these buyers from Italy, Spain, France, USA and Netherlands want," he said.
The company aims to export five containers a month in November and December and fine-tune production and management systems.
Lanka Ceramic was privatised and listed in Colombo in 1992. The major shareholder, Uniwalkers, a local electronics firm, controls 35 percent, Noritake of Japan and the Sri Lanka government 18 percent each, and the public 29 percent.
The share was last traded at 25.50 a 10-rupee share.
The Bank of England said gilt repos included in M4 rose by 0.5 billion stg in July, to 8.6 billion stg. Reverse repos included in M4 rose 0.3 billion stg to 14.3 billion.
The Trocadero entertainment complex in the heart of London's Piccadilly marked its relaunch on Tuesday after a 50 million pound redevelopment that it said was expected to triple revenues over five years.
"An estimated 55 million visitors a year pass by the Trocadero and some 20 million people come through the centre," Nick Leslau, chief executive of Trocadero Plc, told a news conference.
The challenge, he said, was to convert visitors into money-spending consumers.
Leslau told Reuters that he expected the retail revenues to triple over the next five years, the time span in which he expects the centre to reach maturity.
He said Trocadero would seek to convert rental agreements into revenue-sharing deals as leases expire.
Trocadero and Sega together invested about 50 million pounds in redesigning the centre -- shifting its focus from shopping to entertainment and giving it a flashy, high-tech look -- and installing a SegaWorld virtual reality centre due to open next month.
An Imax 3D cinema is to open in early 1997.
The complex's current entertainment and shopping tenants -- including cinemas, an amusement arcade and a Planet Hollywood restaurant as well as shops -- generate retail revenues of about 125 million pounds a year, Leslau said. Trocadero derives its revenues from the rental income it receives from these tenants.
It recently entered into a joint venture for a Marvel Mania themed restaurant to be built adjacent to the Trocadero that will provide a base rental of one million pounds a year and a percentage of turnover.
The Marvel Mania restaurant, based on characters from Marvel comics, is a joint venture with Robert Earl's Planet Hollywood and Ronald Perelman's Marvel Entertainment Group Inc .
Trocadero's current rental deals provide guaranteed income that is sufficient to cover the complex's service debt and overhead for the next 22 years, Leslau said.
It is also intent on exploiting the sponsorship potential of the complex.
"We are currently negotiating with several potential sponsors for the complex and will be developing commercial partnerhsips with a range of companies who understand the power that our customer base can provide," Leslau said.
"The Trocadero offers unrivalled opportunities for advertisers and sponsors to promote their products to an elusive youth market."
Trocadero Plc was spun off from property management group Burford Holdings last November. Burford had acquired the Trocadero complex in September 1994 for 94 million pounds. At that time the Trocadero was a shopping mall.
"The key to success at the Trocadero lay in its transformation from a shopping mall into a premier entertainment destination," Leslau added.
NWE gas oil was mostly steady but with a softer undertone as traders reported many more sellers than buyers in the market.
A handful of buyers came into the market to cover prompt requirements, but most were holding back in the hope that benchmark futures would fall further.
Balance of August barges traded at Sept IPE +$1 early in the day, but bids were seen at a stubborn Sept IPE +75 cents for Rotterdam refinery material later on.
A German trader offering a Russian cargo with Aug 24-25 delivery dates pegged premiums at Sept IPE +$1.50/$2 cif ARA.
Patchy demand was seen for low sulphur diesel into France and Germany. A Scandinavian refiner was rumoured to have picked up a 5,000 tonne parcel into Bremen, but this could not be confirmed.
German DIN talked steady with offers at Sept IPE +$3/$2.50 cif Hamburg and bids at Sept IPE +$1.50/+$2.
Sept IPE gas oil settled 25 cents lower at $188.25 a tonne. The Sept/Oct backwardation shed 75 cents, under pressure from expectations that weekly US stock data would show an inventory build.
Livestock analysts' estimates for Tuesday's CME weekly out-of-town cold storage report ranged from a net out-movement of 2.8 to 3.5 million lbs.
This compares with a net out-movement of 3.520 million a week ago and an out-movement of 4.607 million a year ago.
The report will be released at 1330 CDT.
Dayton Hudson Corp, which reported higher second quarter earnings, said it epects to see continued improvement in the performance of its department store division.
Earlier, Dayton reported second quarter fully diluted earnings of $0.42 a share, up from $0.11 a year ago.
Dayton said its Target division's operating profit for the quarter rose 66 percent to $240 million, compared with $144 million a year ago. Target's total revenues rose 16 percent and comparable store revenues gained seven percent.
Its Mervyn's division had a rise in operating profit in the second quarter to $54 million from $3 million, although  sales dropped three percent and comparable-store sales fell five percent.
The department store division had a drop in second quarter operating profit to $10 million from $24 million. Total revenues fell two percent from a year ago and comparable-store revenues declined four percent.
The Turkish central bank lent banks 15.5 trillion lira of overnight money at 75 percent on Tuesday to ease a cash shortage in the market, after keeping rates at 74-74.75 percent during the day.
The bank funded banks 10.3 trillion lira of overnight money at the same rate on Monday when the market closed at an average of 73.86 percent.
Although the market opened with a shortage of 4.7 trillion lira in the morning, the lira weakened due to a firmer dollar/mark and the central bank's support for the U.S currency on Tuesday.
The central bank raised its dollar rate for banks' compulsory currency transfers to 86,050 lira in the afternoon, from 86,000 at the opening. That was on top of a 150-lira rise in the morning from Monday's close.
The lira fell to 86,070 per dollar from 86,000 at Monday's close on the central bank's rate adjustments and the dollar/mark trend.
T-bill yields firmed by one-two points as selling emerged due to the cash squeeze.
Bankers said Monday's 211-day t-bill auction, in which the treasury raised the yield to extend maturity, helped push those t-bill yields lower.
The most active February 26 paper yield fell to 127.55 percent from 126.26 at Monday's close. Since Friday, yields have lost 1.74 points.
Southern Union Co said on Tuesday it has filed a lawsuit to block a merger between United Cities Gas Co and Atmos Energy Corp.
Southern Union, which holds 854,300 shares, or 6.5 percent, of United Cities, is seeking to block the deal until the United Cities board exercises its fiduciary duties. Southern Union wants United Cities to provide confidential information so it can make an informed takeover offer.
Atmos Energy and United Cities Gas, both natural gas providers, agreed last month that Atmos would acquire United Cities in a stock swap.
Atmos Energy declined to comment since it had not seen the lawsuit filed in the U.S. District Court for the Middle District of Tennessee. United Cities was not immediately available for comment.
Atmos and United Cities filed a complaint with the Missouri Public Service Commission on August 6, 1996 alleging that Southern Union's purchases of United Cities shares violated state utility regulations. Southern Union said it filed a counter complaint saying it was entitled to the usual privileges of ownership associated with United Cities stock.
Indian political parties threw their support behind the government on Tuesday in firmly repudiating a draft nuclear test ban treaty.
The parties put up a united front to denounce the pact after India prevented the accord from being adopted by disarmament negotiators in Geneva.
Jaipal Reddy, spokesman for Prime Minister H.D. Deve Gowda's 13-party governing coalition, told Reuters Television: "India cannot be privy to this highly discriminating treaty."
In Geneva, Indian ambassador Arundhati Ghose told the Conference on Disarmament that the draft treaty would not halt efforts by nuclear weapons powers to perfect their arsenals using non-explosive techniques like computer simulation.
Ghose said the Comprehensive Test Ban Treaty (CTBT) did not promote the realisation of "universal disarmament goals".
K.L. Sharma, spokesman from the main opposition Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), said: "All parties in the country are united on this issue, that our country should not sign the CTBT."
During the 2-1/2 years of negotiations, India has demanded that the CTBT commit the five declared nuclear powers -- Britain, China, France, Russia and the United States -- to a disarmament timetable. The nuclear powers have resisted.
Reddy said the treaty represented the views of the five nuclear powers. "They never care to address themselves with the security concerns of India because India is not a nuclear weapon state," he said.
New Delhi was further angered when the draft text demanded that India be among those that signed up to the treaty before it could enter into force.
India, along with Pakistan and Israel, is one of three "nuclear threshold states" that have the capability to swiftly build nuclear weapons. New Delhi exploded a nuclear device in 1974, but has not undertaken any nuclear tests since then.
Ghose said the government's views were "shared across the Indian political spectrum".
In Geneva, U.S. disarmament ambassador Stephen Ledogar said the real reason India had blocked the CTBT was because "New Delhi wants to maintain the Indian nuclear weapon option".
Shortly after taking power in June, Deve Gowda's United Front coalition reiterated it would retain the option to build nuclear weapons until universal disarmament was realised.
"The government has clearly said it will not foreclose the nuclear option. It is linked to our security," an official in New Delhi said when asked to comment on Ledogar's views.
But the official, who asked not to be identified, said the main reason India blocked the CTBT "was nuclear disarmament has to be total and comprehensive, and has to be in a timeframe".
Like the nuclear Non-Proliferation Treaty (NPT) which was indefinitely extended last year, the CTBT is widely viewed in India as a discriminatory agreement that would divide the world into nuclear "haves" and "have nots".
Ghose said arguments put forward by the nuclear weapons states before the International Court of Justice represented their understanding that the NPT legitimised both their possession of nuclear weapons and their right to use them.
"The world was burdened indefinitely with a differential notion of sovereignty -- one entitled to nuclear weapons and another not," she said.
Asked what India would do if the five nuclear powers tried to forward the CTBT to the United Nations General Assembly, Reddy said: "We will cross that bridge when we come to that."
British Gas Plc pipeline arm TransCo confirmed on Tuesday that a tender for gas for September and October closed this afternoon.
TransCo tendered for 3,759 gigaWatt hours to be injected into storage during September and October, a spokesman said.
This equates to around 2.10 million therms a day if delivered evenly over the two months.
TransCo will notify successful tenderers on Thursday.
The gas is for "operating and balancing margins" -- in effect storage cover for the winter.
Stocks dipped on Tuesday to close at a 33-month low in slow trading as overall depression erased early selective buying of theme-backed small-sized shares, brokers said.
The composite stock index ended 6.61 points lower at a provisional 793.91, the lowest closing since November 12, 1993 when it closed at 791.47.
Brokers said the slowing economy, confirmed by poor first-half results of listed companies, would remain a major liability to the market for the rest of the year.
According to the Korea Listed Companies' Association, net profits at non-bank listed companies for the six months fell 53 percent from the corresponding period last year.
Rising interest rates ahead of the Korean Thanksgiving holidays in September further dampened market sentiment.
Volume totalled 16.13 million shares, compared with 14.87 million on Monday.
Losers outpaced gainers 535 to 265 with 145 unchanged.
The Korea Stock Exchange said it halted trading in shares of Kun Young on Tuesday because the company defaulted on 1.26 billion won worth of promissory notes late Monday. It stood at 5,020 won before trading was suspended. A consortium of five small- and medium-sized local construction companies has agreed in principle to take over Kun Young.
An Indian newspaper said on Tuesday that the Civil Aviation Ministry had rejected a proposal to allow foreign companies to take equity stakes in domestic airlines.
The Economic Times quoted Civil Aviation Minister C.M. Ibrahim as saying the decision to retain a ban on foreign equity participation in the sector meant a proposed joint venture linking Singapore Airlines (SIA) and India's Tata Industries Ltd would not go ahead.
"The union Civil Aviation Ministry has spiked plans for foreign equity participation in the aviation sector, thereby grounding the controversial Tata-Singapore Airlines proposal for once and for all," the newspaper said in a front-page article.
Civil Aviation Ministry officials could not be reached for comment.
The newspaper said the ministry planned to devote its energies to shoring up loss-making Air-India, the national overseas carrier.
In 1991 India began dimantling the state's aviation monopoly as part of an economic reform programme, opening its air travel sector to more than a dozen domestically owned airlines.
In February 1995, Singapore Airlines and Tata Industries submitted a proposal to India's Foreign Investment and Promotion Board (FIPB) to launch the joint venture airline. Tata would hold a 60 percent stake and SIA the rest.
Since then the proposal has languished with the government, which has said the tie-up would have to wait until the nation's airport infrastructure was expanded.
Bundesbank data released on Tuesday show that net currency reserves fell to about 102.8 billion marks in the week ending August 15, down from about 103.1 billion marks in the week ending August 7.
Police said on Tuesday they had defused a bomb at the home of a top Corsican politician, and a bomb blast damaged the office of a government official on the French Mediterranean island.
The device was planted on the doorstep of the Ajaccio flat of former industry minister Jose Rossi, the president of the elected council of south Corsica.
Police defused it late on Monday it after an anonymous telephone warning. They said Rossi had been scheduled to spend the night at the flat, which is occupied by his daughter and son-in-law.
The attack, the first direct one against Rossi, came a few days after a bomb wrecked a villa belonging to his elected council. The attacks mark an escalation of violence on the island, torn by separatist strife.
A powerful bomb damaged the office of the central government representative in Sartene early on Tuesday, wrecking his car.
Police said the attackers scaled a high wall protecting the office and lowered the bomb into the grounds with a rope.
It was the fifth bombing of a public building on the island in just over a week.
No one has claimed responsibility for the attacks, but Corsican separatists seeking greater autonomy from mainland France regularly target government buildings in a guerrilla campaign that has been going on for two decades.
The French justice ministry said last week the flare-up of violence would not "diminish its determination to seek out and and punish the perpetrators of terrorist acts".
* Poll shows Republican presidential candidate Bob Dole slicing into President Bill Clinton's lead.
* Interest groups are heavily involved in congressional races.
* New, tougher criminal sentencing policies raise issues of fairness to women.
* AT&T Corp's stock plummets after president resigns.
* Balkan economies stagnate in grip of political leaders.
* China's ambitious President Jiang Zemin wants Mao's title - chairman of the Communist Party.
* Delay in sentencing James McDougal, a former partner of President Clinton and first lady Hillary Clinton in the Whitewater real estate deal, could signal a thaw in the case.
Following are highlights of stories in the Irish press on Tuesday.
- A man was being questioned by Irish police on Monday night following the seizure of cocaine and cannabis in Dublin with a street value of 1.5 million Irish pounds.
- Irish exploration company Glencar plans to increase its stake in the Wassa gold project in Ghana from 45.2 percent to 61 percent at a cost of between $11.4 million and $12.2 million.
-Insurance company Hibernian Group warned that its motor premiums may rise after it reported that rising motor accident claims contributed to a 17 percent fall in operating profits to 11.2 million for the first six months of 1996.
- The Irish Department of Education has ordered an inquiry into aspects of a detailed financial report on one of the country's vocational educational committees.
- Irish police are investigating the deaths of two women in their homes in Dublin and Kerry.
- Belfast-based exploration company Andaman may seek a listing on the London Stock Exchange if its proposed acquisition of an unnamed Asian oil and gas company goes ahead.
- Insurance sales staff at financial services firm Irish Life agreed by a narrow margin to accept a Labour Relations Commission initiative to open further talks with management at the company.
Boris Yeltsin's new security chief plunged Moscow politics into chaos on Tuesday, challenging the authenticity of presidential decrees on the Chechnya crisis and raising speculation on whether Yeltsin was still running Russia.
Aides to the 65-year-old president, seen only once in public since he was re-elected seven weeks ago, insisted he was not ill but he remained out of sight.
His spokesman denied a new report he was being treated for a serious heart condition and said he had left Moscow for a short holiday.
Tough-talking ex-general Alexander Lebed, just two months in his job as Security Council secretary and already at loggerheads with some Kremlin insiders, issued a statement saying Yeltsin's latest decrees on Chechnya bore only a facsimile signature and seemed to have been prepared without his participation.
A decree ordering Lebed to restore Russian control of Grozny, which was seized by separatist rebels on August 6, was the cue for the army to prepare a massive bombardment of the Chechen capital and would wreck Lebed's peacemaking efforts, the Security Council statement said.
Lebed, whom Yeltsin named his personal representative to Chechnya last week, would make his third trip in 10 days to the region on Wednesday, Itar-Tass news agency said.
Yeltsin started a two-day break in the picturesque lakeland of Valdai in northwestern Russia on Tuesday, the presidential press service said.
Spokesman Sergei Yastrzhembsky said Yeltsin would consider a longer holiday in Valdai but dismissed as "complete rubbish" a report by Ekho Moskvy radio that the president had been in a specialist cardiological centre since August 15.
Journalists at Ekho Moskvy told Reuters they stuck by their story. which said Yeltsin, who had two heart attacks last year, had been diagnosed as having moderately serious heart trouble.
"In the coming hours the question of carrying out a surgical operation may be decided," the radio said.
Yastrzhembsky on Monday had denied a Time magazine report that the Kremlin was considering transferring Yeltsin to a Swiss clinic for a bypass operation.
He said the president and Prime Minister Viktor Chernomyrdin, who would deputise for Yeltsin if he were incapable of working, were continuing to work on formation of the new government, most of which was announced last week.
There was no immediate response to Lebed's charges.
"The contents of the documents give solid grounds to doubt that the president of Russia took a direct part in finalising the text of the order," the Security Council statement said.
The decree, it added, had given the army commander in the region his cue to announce he would launch an all-out air and artillery bombardment of the city from Thursday morning, having given tens of thousands of citizens 48 hours to flee.
Terrified civilians flooded out of Grozny on Tuesday.
The refugees, many of them with little more than the clothes they stood up in, said Russian planes had started bombing the town, much of it already in ruins after attacks at the start of Russia's campaign to crush Chechnya's independence bid.
"The whole city is on its way out," said Nina Madayeva, who said 12 planes had bombed Grozny's southwestern Chernorechye district overnight. "We've been in a basement for 14 or 15 days and couldn't stand it any more."
Russian commander, General Konstantin Pulikovsky, who had signed a ceasefire order on Saturday, accused the guerrillas of using the truce to dig in.
"I see force as the only way out of the situation in Grozny," he told Interfax news agency.
Rebel chief-of-staff Aslan Maskhadov appealed to Lebed, who has held talks with the rebels, to rein in Pulikovsky's troops.
He should "use all of his influence to stop the approaching madness", Interfax quoted Maskhadov as saying.
UK overnight cash rates ended firmer but off their day's highs after a larger than expected liquidity shortage of 1.45 billion stg.
In the gilt repo market, the 7.0 percent gilts due 2001 were again extremely well bid, while the Bank of England's announcement of a 7.5 percent 2.5 billion stg auction of gilts due 2006 next week was in line with market expectations.
"The 7.0s of 2001 traded at 3.0 percent on the overnight and around 2.90 in the week," one trader said. "I think it's 3.0 percent bid for two weeks, so it's gone really nasty today."
The trader said there was no obvious reason for the exceptional levels at which the stock was trading, nearly three percentage points below general collateral (GC).
"I think someone is probably squeezing it a bit but nobody really knows," he said.
Some interest was still noted in the 6.0s of 1999 at around 5.25 percent.
Overnight GC ended at around 5.60 50 percent.
In the cash market, overnight rates initially rose to around 6.0 percent after the Bank of England took out only 50 million stg of an estimated 1.3 billion stg shortage in its early round of operations.
But the central bank weighed in more substantially in the subsequent rounds, fully clearing a shortage that was finally put at 1.45 billion stg.
Overnight cash ended at 5-3/4 3/8 compared with 5-1/2 5.0 percent on Monday.
One month was steady at 5-3/4 11/16 while three months was 1/32 lower at 5-25/32 23/32.
Prudential Sec. said it won $7.940 million of Taylor Cty, Texas, general obligation limited tax bonds, Series 1996, with a net interest cost of 5.29 percent.
The Slovak central bank (NBS) on Tuesday said it was reviewing the holdings of steel maker VSZ a.s. in bank IRB a.s. after the firm requested central bank approval for its acquisition of over 20 percent in the bank.
Onda declined to comment on the issue further.
Following Slovak securities law, VSZ submitted a request to acquire a major stake in IRB bank to the central bank a week ago.
Slovak banking law states that any merger or acquisition involving more than 15 percent of a bank's basic capital must be approved by the central bank within three months from the day request is received.
Confusion surrounds the extent of VSZ holdings, which were published by the SCP recently as being 20.66 percent. The SCP has since said the figure was "mistaken".
Under Slovak securities law, the SCP must publish the names of any entity which acquires five percent of a firm, or when its total holdings in a company break the threshold of 10, 20, 30, 50 or 65 percent.
VSZ officials have said their firm currently holds a 14.65 percent stake in IRB, but said it is expected to rise to at least 20 percent, once pending purchase agreements with other IRB shareholders are approved by the central bank.
New Zealand beat Western Transvaal 31-0 (halftime 12-0) on Tuesday.
Scorers -- Tries: Ofisa Tonu'u, Matthew Cooper, Eric Rush, Alama Ieremia, Carlos Spencer. Conversions: Cooper (3).
Year		     Amount    Coupon     Yield     Price  Conc.
British mobile telephone group Orange Plc on Tuesday reported a jump in first-half pre-tax losses to 125.2 million pounds ($193.6 million), almost half as much again in the first half of 1995.
But Orange, whose shares have fallen well below the level at which they were floated in March, said the losses were as expected and pointed to steady gains in its subscribers and turnover as proof of the underlying health of the business.
"Our net growth has increased dramatically...all the key drivers of the business, we are succeeding on," group managing director Hans Snook told Reuters in an interview.
Shares in Orange gained four pence to 191 after the results, which compared with a loss of 88.8 million a year earlier.
But the stock is still well short of the 205 pence level of its flotation, which valued the group at some 2.5 billion pounds and propelled it into the FTSE-100 index of leading British shares.
Orange said its turnover more than doubled over the first half of the year to 256.5 million pounds from 100.0 million as it added a further 194,000 subscribers to take its total customer base to 573,000.
Snook said the figure had since increased to more than 600,000, giving it 10 percent of a market led by Vodafone Group and British Telecom's 60 percent-held Cellnet.
Orange, whose major shareholder is still the Hong Kong-based Hutchison Whampoa Ltd group which, along with joint venture partner British Aerospace, brought it to market, is not expected to turn a profit or offer a dividend until 1998.
Asked to explain the fall in Orange's share price since March, Snook said it had suffered from a knock-on effect of weakness in quoted U.S technology stocks and from what he considered misplaced concern about the British mobile market.
"A lot of people do not understand what this transition process in our market place is all about," he said, referring to fears that growth in new subscribers was now slowing down.
Orange's growth in new subscribers was up on the second half of last year and "churn" -- the rate at which customers cancel their subscriptions after a year -- had now fallen to 17.6 percent, offering more secure revenues.
Snook added that Orange was one of the few mobile networks in the world that was managing to boost the average amount of revenue it gained per subscriber, with a small rise to 446 pounds per head from 444 pounds.
"Our job as the management is to keep on working on those fundamentals and we are confident that they will be reflected in the share price," he said.
Analysts said the results were in line with expectations and the fall in the churn rate was particularly encouraging.
Tropical Storm Dolly, the fourth big weather front of the Atlantic season, is picking up steam off Mexico's Caribbean coast, National Meterological Service said Tuesday.
Centered 160 km (100 miles) east of El Ubero in the southern state of Quintana Roo, Dolly currently is moving west-northwest at 22 km/h (14 mph).
Estimations are that Dolly will touch land with maximum sustained winds of 100 km/h (63 mph) and gusts of 120 km/h (75 mph) and waves up to four meters along the coasts of Quintana Roo and Yucatan states.
Heavy rains of more than seven cm (two inches) are expected to be dumped in the states of Oaxaca, Chiapas, Tabasco, Yucatan, Quintana Roo and Campeche with landslides in Tabasco and Chiapas, the service said in an update.
States of alert were declared to shipping and inhabitants along the coast between Chetumal in Quintana Roo to Puerto Progreso in Yucatan state. Weather forecasters also said alerts were posted along the northern coast of Belize.
Weathermen from the Mexican TV network Televisa said Dolly was likely to cleave through the Yucatan peninsula and emerge in the Gulf of Mexico.
From there, Dolly could pave its way westward toward Mexico's Veracruz and Tamaulipas coasts or veer more northerly toward southern Texas, they predicted.
-- Oppenheimer & Co analyst R. Scott Graham confirmed he raised his rating on Black and Decker Corp to buy from outperform, saying a meeting with management last week raised his level of conviction about the company.
"There are lots of new, innovative, margin-enhancing products and the company is continuing to take down its cost structure," Graham said.
"It has emerging market play and is driving cash flow to levels we have not seen in this company for over a decade. This is a big part of paying down its debt, which has been a penalizer of its multiple."
Thailand's opposition parties submitted a no-confidence motion on Tuesday against beleaguered Prime Minister Banharn Silpa-archa, accusing him of damaging the country through mismanagement and inefficiency.
"Prime Minister Banharn is inefficient and shows a lack of leadership... ," the opposition said in the motion submitted to the president of parliament.
"He has abused his duty and turned a blind eye to rampant corruption... all of which has caused damage to the country... "
Debate on the motion will begin on September 11, an opposition member of parliament (MP) told Reuters.
The opposition has said it was confident there was enough strong evidence to bring down Banharn's 13-month old coalition, which has been rocked by the withdrawal of one of its member parties.
"The public will be shocked with the evidence we have in hand," Democrat parliamentarian Chamni Sakdiseth told reporters after the motion was put forward.
Banharn has denied allegations of mismanagement and impropriety, and said he was ready to face the accusations in parliament and had no plans to dissolve the house.
There had been speculation he might try to escape the grilling by dissolving parliament or resigning before the debate.
"You can just forget about me resigning or dissolving parliament," Banharn said on Monday. He was not immediately available for comment on Tuesday after the no-confidence motion was submitted.
Questions have been raised about the future of Banharn's government since last week when the third largest member, the Palang Dharma party, pulled out of the coalition.
Although the pullout left the six-party coalition with a majority in parliament, factional rivalry within Banharn's own Chart Thai party and threats of more partners leaving the alliance have raised doubts about its survival.
Palang Dharma resigned last week after a row in cabinet over controversial banking licences. The remaining six parties vowed to stick together at least until the 1996/97 fiscal budget bill was passed.
The debate on the budget bill, which began last Wednesday and is expected to be boted on later on Tuesday, was still going on as the censure motion was put forward.
The record budget of 984 billion baht ($39.36 billion) is expected to easily win parliamentary approval. Palang Dharma said it would support the bill to ensure its passage.
In the censure debate, the opposition has said it will not only grill Banharn over alleged mismanagement and corruption, but also plans to attack him over his handling of the economy.
Political analysts said on Tuesday that Banharn has various options, making it difficult to predict the course of events in coming weeks.
"Banharn may make a major change to his coalition by resigning and forming a new coalition," said Sukhum Naulsakul, a politics lecturer at Ramkhamhang University.
"He could bring more parties in to his coalition to boost his numbers to ensure he passes the censure vote," he said.
(All data above 000s except per share numbers) NOTE: Full company name Blue Fish Clothing Inc. The company recorded a tax benefit of $173,566 as a result of establishing deferred income tax assets upon the company's conversion to a C Corporation.
Whatever the U.S. Federal Reserve and the German Bundesbank decide to do with their key money rates this week, the damage for Spanish markets would at worst be a widening of the Bono-Bund yield spread to about 270 basis points from 264 now, analysts said.
"If the Buba doesn't cut, the bond spread should widen to around 265-270 basis points, and if it does the gap should narrow to 255-260," said Alfredo Urrutia, chief economist at Societe Generale in Madrid.
Views are mixed on the possibility of a cut in the German repo rate from 3.30 percent now, although those expecting a move predict a trim of around 10 basis points.
No change in the German central bank's key money rate would mean a return to recent bond market lows, but the risk of a sustained sell-off is limited, analysts agreed.
"If the Buba doesn't cut on August 22 it will be negative for the markets, but not as much as if it doesn't move again on September 5," said Jose Maria Castellon, analyst at Merrill Lynch.
If the Bundesbank leaves the repo steady, the markets will continue to expect a cut next month, analysts said. But this still implied an initial negative impact on the dollar and peripheral European currencies after Thursday's meeting.
"Initially we would move back to minimum (bono) levels and the mark would once again be the stronger currency," Alfredo Urrutia said.
"The peseta will be nearer to 85 per mark than 84.50 if the Buba leaves rates" he added.
German M3 data for July, which was at the lower end of economists' forecasts, have reinforced expectations of a cut in the repo rate.
Castellon said the market has already priced in a small cut.
"For that reason I don't think it would affect the peseta much," he said.
Analysts have their doubts about German rates but are more certain that key U.S. money rates will stay on hold.
An eventual hike in rates on the other side of the Atlantic would prompt market volatility at first, they said.
A stronger dollar following a U.S. rate hike might help the peseta, but simultaneous Treasury and stock market losses could see parallel movements in Spain. This may serve to weaken the peseta against the mark.
Pacific Gas & Electric Co (PG&E) said its Diablo Canyon nuclear power units are expected to reach full output Wednesday after being scaled back Monday because of a wildfire in the nearby Los Padres forest.
"We hope to be at 100 percent power tomorrow sometime," said PG&E spokeswoman Arlene Morris-Versaw, adding the California Department of Forestry started backfires to contain the blaze about two hours ago (1100 PDT/1800 GMT).
Efforts to fight the blaze earlier today were hampered by strong winds.
"The plan is for the backburn to continue until tonight," she said. "The winds are (now) favorable."
If the backfires are successful, the utility will check for damage to the insulators of the transmission lines before ramping up both Diablo Canyon units to full power, she said.
The plant's two units, with a combined capacity of 2,160 megawatt (MW), are currentrly producing at 75 percent of capacity.
On Monday, PG&E, as a precaution, shifted all transmission from Diablo Canyon to just one 5,000 kilovolt (KV) line after shutting the two 5,000 KV lines closest to the fire.
Diablo Canyon is at Avila Beach on the California coast.
"The better-than-anticipated performance in the first part of the year was mainly due to the inclusion in the net operating profit figure of significant non-recurring gains on the sale of assets, commission income as well as income due to the change in valuation and accounting entry principles," it said.
In the second half of this year, the general economic trend and the stability of interest rates would have the biggest impact on the profit level, OKOBANK said.
The Australian government said in its budget on Tuesday it expected an underlying deficit in the year ended June 30, 1997 of A$5.65 billion, down from a A$10.32 billion deficit posted in 1995/96.
The median economist forecast was for an underlying deficit number for 1996/97 of A$4.9 billion.
Economists had forecast a A$1.0 billion headline surplus for 1996/97.
The government said the starting point underlying deficit for 1996/97 was A$9.56 billion, and that it would take spending and revenue measures which would produce a net reduction in the 1996/97 underlying deficit of A$3.90 billion.
The starting point deficit is the Treasury's estimate of what the budget outcome would be without any policy change.
These deficit reduction measures included planned revenue increases worth A$979 million over the 1996/97 year and planned spending cuts worth A$2.929 billion over the year.
This latest A$9.56 billion starting point compares with the A$7.64 billion starting point for 1996/97 announced on March 12 just after the new government's election.
The change in the starting point once that A$1.3 billion is taken into account implies economic forecast effects on the budget position of about minus A$660 million.
Economists had a median forecast a A$8.9 billion starting point deficit for 1996/97.
The government said it expected the underlying deficit to fall to A$1.55 billion in 1997/98 and then turn into a surplus of A$957 million in 1998/99.
The government said immediately after its election in March that it wanted to make A$8 billion worth of budget cuts over the 1996/97 and 1997/98 years, aiming for balance in 1997/98.
Pakistan on Tuesday's condemned India's veto against a nuclear test ban treaty and said its neighbour and arch-foe had exposed its "nefarious designs" to pursue nuclear and ballistic missile plans.
A foreign ministry spokesman, quoted by the official APP news agency, accused India of sabotaging the proposed Comprehensive Test Ban Treaty (CTBT) at the U.N.-sponsored Disarmament Conference in Geneva and said New Delhi "has proved that it will brook no impediment to the pursuit of its nuclear and ballistic programmes".
Pakistan, regarded as a nuclear threshold state like India, has said it will not sign the CTBT unless New Delhi does likewise.
The Pakistani spokesman said Islamabad had repeatedly warned the international community about "India's nuclear and hegemonistic ambitions."
"This Indian 'veto' exposes yet again these nefarious designs which cannot be veiled any longer by moralistic arguments," he said.
"India has again shown that it is against all meaningful steps to promote nuclear non-proliferation whether at the global or the regional or bilateral levels.
"The international community will undoubtedly take serious cognizance of this grim reality which Pakistan of course cannot ignore."
The United States reacted angrily on Tuesday to India's formal veto of a nuclear test ban treaty and said it would work to bypass New Delhi's opposition and have the treaty adopted and signed anyway.
Earlier, India's Arundhati Ghose told the international Conference on Disarmament that her country could still not accept the treaty text, which it first vetoed in a negotiating committee last week.
India, one of three nuclear "threshold states", says that the treaty should include a time-bound commitment by the five declared nuclear powers for total nuclear disarmament.
Ledogar said the Comprehensive Test Ban Treaty was never meant to be a nuclear disarmament pact until India decided last year that it should be so.
He said the United States and other supporters of the treaty would act "in the next few days" to either have the draft treaty introduced to the U.N. General Assembly for signature late next month or would convene an international signature conference outside U.N. auspices.
Koito Manufacturing Co Ltd said on Tuesday that its second largest shareholder Mitsui Trust & Banking Co Ltd will sell most of its stake in September.
A Koito spokesman said a sale is necessary because of an anti-monopoly law which prohibits a financial institution from having more than five percent of shares in another company, and also to release more Koito shares into the market.
Mitsui Trust now has 28.44 million shares or a 17.6 percent stake in Koito, which makes head lamps for cars, he said.
Mitsui Trust will sell up to 25.19 million shares through securities houses, the Koito spokesman said.
Of that, 14.69 million shares are planned to be sold in Japan and 10.50 million in overseas markets. The price of the shares will be decided September 3-11, the firm said.
Toyota Motor Corp is currently the largest shareholder in Koito with a 19.1 percent stake.
Vietnam said on Tuesday a further 34 people had been killed after a storm last week, bringing the death toll to more than 50 with hundreds still missing.
Voice of Vietnam radio said the deaths had been reported in the country's remote northwest, and also said 22 people were missing in the mountainous region some 300 km (190 miles) northwest of Hanoi on the border with China's Yunnan province.
The report said torrential rains over the weekend had caused flooding and landslides and left some 5,000 people in the area without adequate food supplies.
The latest casualties, which could not be immediately confirmed, are in addition to dozens of dead and hundreds still missing in coastal areas to the southeast of Hanoi following a whirlwind storm a few days earlier.
Accurate estimates of the number of missing and dead were still not available on Tuesday. Survivors contacted at the weekend described how people clung to floating debris after the storm ripped through offshore fishing fleets.
Vietnamese media warned on Tuesday that a new tropical storm, Niki, was heading across the South China Sea and was likely to hit the country later this week.
City authorities in Hanoi, which lies on the Red River, said they had posted a stage three flood warning on Tuesday -- the highest level of alert.
WASHINGTON - Alex Mandl, viewed as next in line to become chairman of AT&T, is leaving to head a start-up firm.
WASHINGTON - The ads are everywhere, but the back-to-school season isn't what it used to be for the nation's retailers.
WASHINGTON - A retiree's suit against his D.C. law firm reflects a generational pension tension among attorneys.
WASHINGTON - IDT Corp, a New Jersey Internet services provider, bought Genie, the atrophied on-line service created by General Electric Co.
WASHINGTON - Maryland is about to get a missing link in its biotechnology business - a factory built by Medimmune Inc.
The Central Bank of Venezuela announced for Wednesday morning a 80 billion bolivar ($170 million) auction of 177-day "monetary stabilization," or TEM, bills, carrying a 23.86 percent coupon.
The bank said it would also offer 27 billion bolivars ($57 million) of 269-day notes with a 24.57 percent coupon, and 28 billion bolivars of 358-day notes with a 25.29 percent coupon.
Benchmark yields at last week's auction of bills rose over 300 basis points to 23.85 percent for 177-day notes, which were offered with a 20.51 percent coupon at a price of 98.53 percent.
The weekly TEM bill auctions are the Central Bank's principal tool of monetary policy, used to restrict liquidity and establish a benchmark for wider interest rates.
ValuJet Inc. said it began two-days of federal safety "proving runs" Tuesday, in hopes of getting a regulatory green light to resume scheduled flights this week.
The discount carrier, which suspended operations in June amid a series of alleged safety violations and after a deadly crash, also has recalled 70 pilots and 100 flight attendants to staff flights to five cities in the event that ValuJet receives final approval from the Federal Aviation Administration.
FAA inspectors Tuesday morning began putting a McDonnell Douglas DC-9 and two ValuJet crews through various flight exercises, including emergency procedures, said airline spokesman Gregg Kenyon. A ValuJet DC-9 crew consists of a pilot, a co-pilot and three flight attendants.
The proving runs were scheduled to continue through Wednesday afternoon. Kenyon declined to discuss the number of flights or cities involved.
In recent days, ValuJet put the same DC-9 aircraft through a series of test flights between Atlanta and Washington in preparation for the proving runs.
"They will run through a variety of flight situations with FAA personnel on board, including some emergency scenarios," Kenyon said.
ValuJet suspended operations after the May 11 crash of Flight 592, which killed 110 people in the Florida Everglades. Maintenance was not identified as a contributing factor. But the crash led the FAA to step up safety inspections, which in turn led to the suspension.
The low-cost carrier, once a dream for Wall Street investors but a nightmare for big carriers such as Delta Air Lines Inc., now must prove its ability to meet the terms of an FAA consent order, under which the proving runs were taking place.
ValuJet hopes to resume flights Friday but cannot do so without FAA approval.
"We're sitting at a red light, waiting for it to turn green," Kenyon said when asked to characterise the airline's situation.
ValuJet wants to resume operations with seven planes and flights to five cities.
In preparation for that day, pilots and flight attendants have already begun attending retraining programmes developed to meet the consent order.
Between 175 and 200 registration agents and 145 customer service representatives also have been notified that they could start work soon if the Transportation Department allows the airline to begin selling tickets and advertising flight service.
ValuJet stock was unchanged Tuesday afternoon, trading at $10.875 on Nasdaq.
Argentine unions called off Tuesday's meeting due to vote on whether to hold a general strike next month after a gunfight in which at least four members of a truck drivers' union were injured.
Francisco Gutierrez of the main CGT labor federation told reporters the meeting at a union leisure center outside Buenos Aires had been suspended.
The meeting of the Central Confederal Committee of unions had been called to vote on proposals to hold a second general strike against the Peronist government's austerity measures, to follow a 24-hour stoppage that took place August 8.
The CGT, which has usually been close to the government but led the last general strike, wants a 36-hour stoppage next month, while more hardline union federations such as the MTA, to which the truckers belong, want it to last 48 hours.
Television footage showed men in civilian dress among the MTA unionists shooting with handguns and flares at the union sports complex near Ezeiza international airport.
But Moyano, who was inside the building where the debate was due to take place, said afterwards that CGT officials had refused entry to his union colleagues who had "just come to listen," and blamed the CGT for the shootings.
"First we are going to see our wounded colleagues, then we will see what we do," the truckers' leader told reporters.
CGT chief Gerardo Martinez ruled out the idea that any CGT member was armed and blamed the gunfire on "outside groups who want to damage the image of the unions and make us look like gangsters."
President Carlos Menem's Chief of Staff Alberto Kohan said the government was "very worried" about the incident. "People who take part in gunfights do not represent the workers, they are delinquents," Kohan told reporters.
August 8's general strike, which unions say was observed by 90 percent of Argentine workers but the government argues was only a 50 percent success, was marred by violence on a lesser scale when police clashed with unions after preventing them from setting up makeshift soup kitchens in city squares.
Halifax Building Society, Britain's largest mortgage lender, reported half-year profits of 649 million pounds ($1 billion) Tuesday.
However, the society said its share of Britain's reviving housing market slipped to a 7.2 percent share of net mortage lending and 15.2 percent of gross mortgage lending.
Spokesman Gary Marsh said in an interview that these levels were below the firm's normal market share of about 20 percent because it had shied away from re-mortgaging, which accounted for 30 percent of the total mortgage market.
The size of the re-mortgage market reflects the low level of transactions from home buyers, Marsh said.
One analyst said the slip reflected the society's pursuit of profits as it prepared for a public stock offering.
The Reserve Bank of India (RBI) announced the following transactions in dated government securities and treasury bills through its Subsidiary General Ledger (SGL) account on August 20.
NOTE - Kansai Kisen Kaisha is a leading operator of coastal carriers.
Air Force investigators Tuesday sifted through a charred crash site for clues to determine why a presidential cargo plane slammed into a mountain at the weekend, an Air Force spokesman said.
The probe into Saturday night's crash, which killed all nine people aboard, was expected to last at least several weeks, spokesman Bill Orndorff said.
A memorial service was scheduled for Wednesday at Dyess Air Force base in Abilene, Texas, the home base of eight of those who died. The ninth person killed was a Secret Service agent. A local service was also being planned by the Jackson community.
The plane that crashed minutes after takeoff was headed for New York, where President Clinton celebrated his 50th birthday at a gala party and fundraiser. It was transporting presidential vehicles.
Clinton, who had been vacationing in Wyoming had left the area about five hours before the crash.
"It's a painstaking process," Orndorff said of the investigation. The bodies have been recovered and will be sent to Dover, Delaware for official identification, he said.
Orndorff said no evidence of sabotage or mechanical problems have been found "at this time."
In Washington, Capt. Mike Doubleday, a Pentagon spokesman, said the C-130 plane did not have a ground proximity warning device, but that he did not know if it would have averted the crash if it had been so equipped.
He said he believed the ground proximity warning device did not warn pilots of mountains or objects in front of them, but rather of ground under them.
The charred area on the mountain side is about 1,650 feet (500 metres) long and 500 feet (150 metres) wide, Orndorff said. Debris from the crash was scattered over an area 1,000 feet (300 metres) wide, he said.
Some 25 investigators and support staff working at the site are ferried by helicopter because the wilderness area does not have any access roads.
The plane crashed at about 10,600 feet (3,215 metres) up Sleeping Indian Mountain in the Bridger-Teton National Forest, a part of the Gros Ventre Wilderness. The summit is at about 11,300 feet (3,390 metres).
The flight data recorder and the voice recorder, commonly called the "'black boxes" that were housed in the tail section, one of the few pieces of the plane that were intact, were found on Monday.
Alaska has granted a new air-quality permit to Louisiana-Pacific Corp's Ketchikan Pulp Co, based on a consent decree that mandates reductions in sulfur dioxide emissions and controls of several other air pollutants, state officials said.
The permit, issued by the Alaska Department of Environmental Conservation, includes "the most comprehensive compliance monitoring that DEC has ever required of an Alaskan company," John Stone, the agency's chief of air-quality maintenance, said in statement issued on Monday.
Ketchikan Pulp operates a dissolving-pulp mill in Ketchikan and sawmills in the area. It is the dominant timber operator in southeast Alaska's Tongass National Forest.
The consent decree was filed last Friday, DEC officials said.
In addition to the new air-quality permit, the DEC proposed establishing a public communications forum to address community complaints about pollution from the mill.
The program is modeled after panels used to review and manage oil spills and other such accidents, DEC said.
The Australian share market ended just firmer on Tuesday and well off its highs as cautious players cashed in gains ahead of the Federal budget, due later today at 7.30 p.m. (0930 GMT).
By the close, the All Ordinaries index had firmed 3.2 points to 2,264.7 while September share index futures rose seven points to 2,283, an 18.3 point premium to the underlying index.
Brokers said few investors were willing to hold courageous positions ahead of the budget, allowing a wave of caution to wash over the market in the afternoon session.
"The sellers took over in the afternoon. People are getting careful before the release of the actual figures," said a Sydney broker.
"No-one wants to be too brave so you've seen some profit taking after a strong couple of days."
The afternoon losses were spread around, resulting in a mixed bag of closes among the leaders.
"It was mixed at the end but all were well off highs at the end," the broker said.
Turnover impressed, topping A$850 million, as investors showed a healthy interest in an active bourse.
Interest rate sensitive stocks like banks and insurers climbed early but fell back to with the rest of the market in the afternoon session.
Rises outnumbered falls by a ratio of about five to three, while about 31 percent of stocks traded remained steady.
French sugar intervention board FIRS said on Tuesday it held its 1996/97 beet sugar yield estimate of 9.40 tonnes per hectare, from 9.87 in 1995/96 following results of the second beet test by manufacturers.
"The test shows a slight improvement but it confirms the 1996/97 campaign will not be exceptional. It would be premature at this stage to change our estimate and we will wait for the results of the third test before eventually adjusting the figures," a FIRS analyst told Reuters.
Sugar manufacturers' association SNFS said on Monday the test carried out on August 12 showed sugar weight per hectare fell by 10.2 percent to 6.210 tonnes from 6.916 in last year's second test.
This represented a decline of 15 percent from the five-year average of 7.340 tonnes.
The number of beets per hectare fell to 101,500 from 109,600 but sugar content rose to 17.48 percent from 16.33 percent.
"The second test shows that drought stress is persisting and that a higher sugar content is not making up for a lower number of beets per hectare and a lower root weight," the analyst said.
She said the test figures were the lowest when compared to yearly averages since 1991 and five-year averages for 1981-85, 1986-90 and 1991-95.
In June FIRS predicted the sugar crop would drop to 3.9 million tonnes from 4.2 million in 1995/96, assuming a decline in area of 9,000 hectares to 420,000 ha.
Rating Announcement As of 08/16/96.
Miners at RTZ Corp Plc-CRA Ltd's Blair Athol coal mine in central Queensland have voted to end their five-and-a-half week strike and return to work at 2100 GMT Tuesday (7 a.m. Wednesday), a Blair Athol Coal spokesman said.
Bates said the matter of training on a new drill which caused the miners to strike last month would be put to arbitration.
Union officials were not available for comment.
The strike at Blair Athol, Australia's biggest thermal coal mine, has cost nearly A$60 million in lost production, Bates said.
Blair Athol produces 10 million tonnes of coal annually with the bulk of output shipped to Japanese customers.
NBC, the television unit of General Electric Co, and Matsushita Electric Industrial Co Ltd, parent of Panasonic consumer electronics, are expected to begin a video display project in New York City's Times Square.
A spokesman for the cable TV network CNBC, which will also be involved, declined to answer questions other than to say CNBC president Bill Bolster, Panasonic executive Steve Bonica and New York City mayor Rudolph Giuliani and others are scheduled to speak at a news conference at 1045 EDT/1445 GMT Wednesday.
The project is expected to rival the Times Square video display of Sony Corp.
Polish Foreign Minister Dariusz Rosati said on Tuesday he did not plan to head the finance ministry in the ruling coalition's reshuffled cabinet.
"I am not moving to the finance ministry," PAP news agency quoted Rosati as saying.
Several newspapers earlier quoted unidentified coalition sources as saying Rosati might replace Finance Minister Grzegorz Kolodko, whom the Democratic Left Alliance and the Polish Peasant Party allegedly plan to oust from the cabinet.
The two parties are scheduled to meet on Wednesday to begin talks on a gradual cabinet reshuffle which will accompany a reorganisation of ministries, due to start in October.
Rosati was a candidate for finance minister in 1994, but the then President Lech Walesa blocked his appointment.
Juan Rebolledo Gout, an undersecretary in the Foreign Ministry, told reporters the credits would be signed by Mexican and Japanese officials on Wednesday, and would support ecological projects, small and medium-sized businesses and exporters in Mexico.
He did not detail how much would be offered for each sector or explain the terms of the loans.
A Foreign Ministry spokeswoman said the export credits would be signed on the Mexican side by Enrique Vilatela, head of the state trade development bank Bancomext.
The credit to small- and medium-sized businesses would be channeled via state development bank Nafin.
Hashimoto two-day visit to Mexic will kick off a five-nation, 10-day tour of Latin America that he hopes will open a new trade front for Japanese industry in the region.
Tokyo has pumped nearly $60 billion (Corrects from $60 million) into the region in the past 14 years.
Singapore expects more than 1 billion shares of Singapore Telecommunications Ltd (SingTel) to be involved in the company's second public tranche, Singapore Commissioner of the Inland Revenue Koh Yong Guan said on Tuesday.
He said the government expected "something more than...1,000 million shares" to be involved in the public offer of shares in telephone monopoly SingTel.
Koh, who is in charge of the government committee organising the sale, said at a media briefing the shares would be credited into the accounts of successful applicants by September 17.
Asked by reporters if that was the date shares would be tradeable, he said: "Yes, that will be the day."
A statement distributed at the briefing estimated the price-earnings ratio for the new offer shares would be 25.6 times, based on the discounted price of Singapore $2.50 per share and the company's net earnings per share of 9.75 cents for the financial year ended March 31, 1996.
Dutch shares closed near the day's highs on Tuesday as the market gleaned confidence from German M3 data and expectations of positive corporate news.
The AEX index closed up 4.87 points at 565.72, just off the day's high of 565.89.
Dealers said the index may push to its all-time high around 572 points towards the end of the week, where it would likely meet solid resistance and some profit taking.
Dealers said the slowdown in German July M3 money supply growth to 8.6 percent was positive for the market, keeping expectations of a repo rate cut alive.
Analysts said Buba may trim the repo by up to 10 basis points on Thursday, but that the market impact may not be great.
The market was firmly focused on the outcome of the U.S. FOMC meeting, due around 1815 GMT, although analysts were united in expecting no rate change.
Pakhoed shares steamed five percent higher after an initial fall as investors digested an unexpectedly low 4.6 million guilder first half net.
The firm also announced a 54.3 million guilder extraordinary charge. The stock closed up 1.70 guilders at 46.30, off the day's high of 47.00 guilders.
Van Ommeren closed up 0.40 guilders at 65.50 after reporting H1 net of 44.7 million guilders, in line with expectations.
"The figures will have to be extremely good to justify these prices," one dealer said, adding there may be some profit taking on the results.
Royal Dutch shares rose 2.40 guilders to 257.50 after a number of brokers reiterated buy recommendations on Shell Transport stock.
Nedlloyd was due to report on Wednesday with analysts expecting shipping operations to keep the group in the red. The stock closed up 0.50 guilders at 35.00.
Moody's Investors Service - Rating Announcement As of 08/20/96.
Commonwealth Aluminum Corp is set to cut production costs and reap freight savings by rejigging production once its takeover of CasTech Aluminum Group Inc is completed, Commonwealth's president and chief executive Mark Kaminski said.
"What we are going to look at is how do we rebalance the throughput of the business," Kaminski told Reuters.
"It was a friendly, negotiated acquisition and is fully financed," he said, adding that Commonwealth's results are "going to be significantly better than they would have been without this merger."
Kaminski said there would be freight savings by moving production of some products to CasTech, located closer to some of its customers.
Commonwealth is a rolling operation based in Kentucky, buying ingot to make into sheet for construction and other uses.
Industry consultant Robert Unger of Planned Technologies Associates said Commonwealth was hit by competition from CasTech in the distributor products sector.
Barmet is the aluminum producing subsidiary of CasTech and is a leader in the so-called mini-mill sector, directly casting scrap-sourced metal.
Kaminski denied the takeover was defensive.
James Southwood of consultants Commodity Metals Management said Commonwealth's "margins were under attack" and the takeover was a significant development for the U.S. aluminum industry and consumers.
CasTech's largest plant, based in Uhrichsville, Ohio obtains all of its metal in molten form from IMCO Recycling Inc's nearby facility.
CasTech buys the scrap and supplies it to IMCO, who then toll processes it into molten metal.
CasTech has a ten-year supply deal with IMCO, automatically renewable for a further ten years. CasTech also has first refusal to buy IMCO's Uhrichsville plant if it goes on the block.
Commonwealth was rumored to be interested in buying Golden Aluminum, the mini-mill which ACX Technologies is aiming to sell after making large losses.
An statement from Standard Chartered Merchant Bank said Miel Investment Corp, whose director is Jonathan Sampoerna, has agreed to buy one million Transmarco shares at Singapore $8.55.
Standard Chartered, together with Swiss Bank Corp, are acting for Miel Investment, which is wholly-owned by Sampoerna. The Sampoerna family controls cigarette maker PT Hanjaya Mandala Sampoerna.
Miel Investment now owns a total of 9.84 million shares in Transmarco or 35.77 per cent of its issued share capital.
Standard Chartered said the offer remains conditional on the company eventually holding at least 13.75 million Transmarco shares or more than 50 percent of its issued share capital.
Transmarco shares were suspended at midday on Tuesday and were last traded at S$9.80, up S$0.95.
High sulphur barges were again the centre of fuel oil attention on Tuesday.
Barges gained $2 from Monday's close to trade as high as $99 fob ARA. One major was an active buyer and 15-20,000 tonnes of product was done.
The firmer prices were attributed to crude oil's strength, strong paper prices and the buying interest. Busier physical bunker enquiries of about 15,000 tonnes was also supportive.
The high sulphur cracked cargo market continued to suffer from illiquidity. A trader that had been bidding in the high $90s cif NWE has withdrawn without securing a cargo.
Dealers said prices were in the low $90s cif NWE, but said exact levels were hard to gauge. "We need a deal to give direction," said one trader.
Portuguese utility EdP has issued an additional tender to buy one 30,000 tonne cargo of high sulphur material for delivery at the end of August. The tender is in addition to the six cargoes it awarded for August supplies.
Low sulphur cracked fuel continued to be buffeted by the lack of buying interest by the main Med buyer. Prices in NWE failed to edge past $100 fob NWE.
The PIBOR three-month interest rate future contract settled higher on Tuesday in dull summer holiday trade, helped by a stronger tone to the franc and expectations of German monetary easing following M3 data earlier in the day.
Ten-year bond futures also advanced in slim volume.
But analysts said with international events such as the FOMC meeting whose outcome is due later on Tuesday and Thursday's Bundesbank council meeting dominating, investors were mainly sitting on the sidelines.
The M3 data released showing a slowdown in monetary growth "was in the right direction," said one analyst.
But analysts were worried it had been reduced by one-off factors, such as reduced government borrowing needs, and said it did not give a clear picture of the money supply situation.
They said Wednesday's Ifo business climate index should offer further guidance on the outlook for German rates.
Even if the Bundesbank does cut, analysts expected the Bank of France to keep its monetary policy on hold for the moment.
"For the franc point of view, a little widening of interest rate margins would be a stabilising factor," said an analyst. "I think it would be inclined to sit tight and reassess the situation."
Analysts said at lack of domestic news ahead of the BoF and Buba meetings should mean more range trading on Wednesday.
One analyst said longer term, the French market was likely to remain in the doldrums waiting for the September budget. "It does not anticipate a great deal of news until then," he said.
At the same time, another analyst said the market was somewhat sheltered by the predominance of domestic investors. Just over 10 percent of French government bonds (OATs) are in foreign hands, down from one-third three years ago, he said.
There was little activity in the cash market and the 10-year OAT-bund spread remained steady at seven basis points.
- A seven-men Russian air crew has come home after more than a year in captivity in the hands of Afghan Taleban rebels.
- Foros, former Soviet President Mikhail Gorbachev's summer residence where he spent the four days of the foiled 1991 pro-communist coup, has been handed over to Ukrainian President Leonid Kuchma, who is currently taking his annual holidays at the superexpensive seaside resort.
- General Konstantin Pulikovsky, in charge of Russian forces in Chechnya, is expected to issue a statement he may launch an all-out attack on separatist rebels if they fail to leave Grozny within 48 hours.
- Moscow tax police have collected 10 billion roubles ($1.9 million) for the city budget in the first seven months of 1996 from selling securities seized from companies who have not paid in full their dues to the budget.
-Chechen rebels are the only ones who stand to gain from bitter in-fighting between Russian generals.
- Russian pilots who escaped from Taleban captivity proved that defending life and dignity of a Russian citizen today is more of a personal matter of the citizen himself than a affair of the state.
- Chechen rebels have issued an ultimatum to the federal forces to clear Grozny within 72 hours or face fierce hostilities all across the separatist republic.
- Russian security services says they had no role to play in the escape of seven Russian airmen from Kandagar, but it is hard to believe that this is true, says the paper.
- National security boss Alexander Lebed's clash with Interior Minister Anatoly Kulikov over Chechnya threatens to turn the latest attempt to resolve the crisis in the republic into another settling of personal accounts between top officials.
- President Boris Yeltsin, five years after the unsuccessful 1991 pro-communist coup remains a simbol of democracy in Russia even though he has failed to become its reincarnation, says the paper.
U.S. Mid-Atlantic spot electricity was trading steady for short-term deals and lower in longer-term trade with below-normal temperatures expected through the region by next week, industry sources said.
"Next week is coming off pretty good, the six-to-ten day forecast is calling for cooler weather," said one broker.
Prices in the Pennsylvania-New Jersey-Maryland (PJM) power pool for next day, on peak delivery were discussed relatively steady in the $29.00-31.00 range from $27.00-31.00 on Monday.
The next day prices were holding at levels above those seen last week.
"The weather is probably a factor, we are seeing some pretty good loads today," said one trader, adding "the prices we are seeing are still low compared to what we would see if we broke the 90s (degrees Fahrenheit)."
Off-peak next day power was talked at $15.50-17.00.
PJM power for firm, peak delivery for the three remaining days of this week was talked lower in the $28.00-29.00 range from $28.50-31.00 range on Monday, the industry sources said.
Power for the five business days of next week was discussed lower at $24.75-25.50 from a range of $25.75-28.00 per megawatt hour on Monday, the brokers and marketers said.
September PJM power, also for firm, peak delivery, dipped in early trade and rebounded slightly to afternoon discussion at $22.20-22.75 with $22.50 said to have traded, although the trade was unconfirmed.
September PJM was talked at $23.00-23.50 on Monday.
October PJM electricity with similar delivery terms was quoted at $20.00-20.65 from $20.20-20.70 on Monday, while November was pegged in the $21.50-22.00 range from $21.60-21.90 on Monday.
December PJM was assessed at $25.00-25.75, while fourth quarter PJM was talked near $22.25-22.75, the sources said.
The fall in Malaysia's tin price to a 14-month low on Tuesday was largely inexplicable though higher world tin stocks and a shift of funds to the equity market were possible factors, dealers said.
The Kuala Lumpur Tin Market (KLTM) closed at 14.97 ringgit ($6.01) a kilo on Tuesday, three cents lower than the previous close and a support level of 15 ringgit.
"But most European and American tin smelters are closed now for the summer holidays and the lower consumption is not unusual," he added.
The KLTM's last lowest closing price was on June 1, 1995 at 14.60 ringgit.
There were offers for 156 tonnes compared to bids for 121 tonnes on Tuesday.
"The tin price is usually pinned to movements of copper and other base metals, LME stock figures and whether speculative funds are being moved to the equity market," he said. "In this case, I can't see a major reason."
LME three month copper traded in a steady range of between $1,900 and 1,970 a tonne on Monday, before closing $15 higher.
Tin moved in a tight range between $6,150 and $6,160 on the London market on Tuesday, while LME stocks of the metal rose 155 tonnes to 10,795 tonnes.
Following is a summary of expected new issues in the international primary debt market.
The list was compiled from information provided by borrowers, banks mandated to lead manage the issues and other primary market sources. All terms and conditions are indicative.
+ FANNIE MAE, TENNESSEE VALLEY AUTHORITY eyeing 10-year global bonds.
+ Japan's KANSAI AIRPORT, $200 million 10yr Eurobond, +30 b.p.
+ SPV RESIDENTIAL REINSURANCE LTD, $500 million, Merrill Lynch, first public bond whose principal payments dependent on losses incurred by insurance group USAA.
+ BANKGESELLSCHAFT, one bln mark five-year Eurobond via C.S. First Boston Effectenbank and J.P. Morgan.
+ NORTHERN ROCK, LLOYDS and ROYAL BANK OF SCOTLAND in stg.
+ QUEBEC PROVINCE, 10-year French franc bond possible. Also looking at dollars.
+ ELETROPAULO, Sao Paulo's state energy company, Eurobond debut in Q2 with a $420 million deal at 550-650 b.p. over.
+ National Bank of HUNGARY $500 million benchmark global DMG/ Merrill on hold until September.
+ Czech Republic's RADEGAST, 70 million mark five-year Eurobond via Nomura with expected 110 b.p. over Bunds.
+ India's RELIANCE INDUSTRIES, 150 million stg, 10-year bond, +220-240 bp, HSBC Markets.
+ THAILAND, $200 million FRN at five years, Deutsche Morgan Grenfell, price talk Libor plus 5/7 b.p. all in.
+ Argentina's TRANSENER, $85 million three-year bond around low 300s over Treasuries, CS First Boston.
NOTE - Pearl Oriental engages in commercial property trading and development, project management, hotel management and consultancy services.
Net is after an exceptional gain on forfeiture of deposits from pre-sale of properties.
Comparative share earnings and interim dividend have been adjusted for the bonus issue in April 1996.
NOTE - The company said performance was substantially boosted by a decline in the rand/dollar rate despite an increase in average tax from 18 percent to 31 percent.
Shareholders would have the option to take up a capitalisation share award in lieu of the dividend in the ratio of 1.451991 shares for every 100 existing Trencor shares held.
Swiss bonds ended lower with the market mostly waiting for the Bundesbank meeting Thursday amidst speculation the German central bank could trim its repurchase rate.
The Bundesbank said Tuesday German M3 growth slowed to 8.6 percent in July from 9.6 percent in June on an annualised basis compared with the fourth quarter average of 1995.
The latest M3 data raised hopes in some markets that the Bundesbank would move to lower the repo rate, which has been at 3.30 percent since February.
But one Swiss trader said that even if the German central bank does not cut rates, hopes for a rate cut down the line are likely to remain priced into the market for now.
In the short end, prices were also weaker even though the Swiss National Bank added liquidity to the money market this morning at rates slightly below the market, traders said.
UK mobile phone group Orange Plc offered what it described as a "cautionary note" on the extent of incentives it is likely to need to offer new subscribers in the second half.
Orange's subscriber acquisition costs, which make up a large part of overall group expenses, fell some nine percent to an average 269 stg per subscriber in the first half of the year, a performance it said it might not be able to repeat.
Competition among the U.K.'s four mobile networks is likely to intensify in the latter part of the year up to Christmas, with often large incentives on offer to attract customers.
Snook noted however that he could not be certain that subscriber acquisition costs would need to rise because if mobile handset prices were to fall of themselves, the level of added discount could afford to be lower.
Orange said earlier its cashflow from operating activities before subscriber acquisition costs was now positive.
Bank Negara Malaysia said it borrowed for a one-month deposit from the interbank market at 6.95 to 7.05 percent against 6.95 previously.
The borrowing was part of the central bank's open market operations. Bank Negara regularly intervenes in the local interbank market to keep a check on liquidity or set interest rates as part of its efforts to fight inflation.
But, it has not been in the market for nearly three months despite rising liquidity that has pressured rates downward, threatening to thwart the Bank's tight monetary policy.
Money market dealers said the intervention indicated that Bank Negara has not eased its tight monetary policy.
While the volume that Bank Negara took was not known, it was expected to give a psychological boost to interest rates, particularly for short-term rates, dealers said.
"Rates are already firming up at the short-end. But, we don't know what the impact is going to be," one dealer said.
He said rates of up to one-month had gone up by five to 10 basis points immediately after Bank Negara's announcement.
Rating Announcement As of 08/19/96.
The U.S. trade gap narrowed dramatically in June as imports of merchandise and petroleum plunged from May levels, the Commerce Department said on Tuesday.
The monthly deficit dropped 23.1 percent to $8.11 billion from a revised $10.55 billion in May -- much lower than the $9.4 billion shortfall that Wall Street economists had forecast for June.
June exports eased a slight 0.3 percent to $69.71 billion while imports dropped 3.3 percent to $77.82 billion.
Taiwan's state-owned Chinese Petroleum Corp (CPC) has issued a tender to sell 225,000-250,000 barrels of 0.3 percent sulphur diesel for September 23-30 lifting, a CPC official said on Tuesday.
The cargo will be lifted from Kaohsiung on a free-on-board (fob) basis. The tender closes on August 26 and bids will be valid until August 28, the official said.
In its last tender, CPC sold 225,000-250,000 barrels of 0.3 percent sulphur diesel near $24.50 per barrel for August 23-30 lifting, fob Kaohsiung.
Australian bonds rallied happily higher ahead of Tuesday's 1996/7 budget, but after the event, analysts said the market may have overstepped the mark.
The budget, the first by a Conservative government after 13 years of Labour rule, pulled on fiscal reigns -- but not quite as hard as had been speculated in financial markets.
The upshot is that other dollar-bloc debt may now have more allure than Aussie bonds, analysts said.
"The initial reaction is a slight sell," said the head of bond research at an Australian bank in London.
"Growth is at a slightly higher level than people had thought, and the savings set out for achieving a tighter budget deficit seem to be a little bit flexible," he said.
Australian Treasurer Peter Costello said government spending would be cut by A$3.9 billion, bringing the underlying budget deficit to A$5.65 billion in the 1996/7 financial year.
The average forecast from analysts polled before the budget was for a 1996/7 budegt deficit of A$4.7 billion.
Costello and Prime Minister John Howard said the budget paved the way for looser monetary policy.
But with gross domestic product data (GDP) on Tuesday showing annual growth at 4.5 percent in June, analysts were sceptical of further easing prospects.
"It is often the case when finance ministers have to present restrictive budgets that they promise rate cuts as a reward for those who have to bear the pain," said Stephen Lewis, director of research at London Bond Broking.
The Reserve Bank of Australia suprised financial markets on July 31 with a 50 basis point cut in it official cash rate to 7.00 percent -- its first monetary easing for three years.
"Whether we actually get more cuts will depend on the course the economy takes -- and if we get numbers as strong as today's GDP, the pace at which rates can fall may be quite gradual," Lewis said.
Against the budget and growth background, analysts said international investors had little to get excited about in Australian debt, saying Aussie yield spreads against the U.S. were likely to widen.
The 10-year Auusie/U.S. yield spread was 134 basis points just before Costello's budget, but analysts said they would not be surprised to see it at 150 before the week is out.
Yields on the benchmark 10-year Aussie bond rose around eight basis points after the budget was presented.
Further out, the comparative weakening trend will continue, analysts said. "We could well see that spread in the 175 to 180 basis points area in the next six months," said LBB's Lewis.
David Crofts, international bond salesman at Williams de Broe in London, said he would be looking for a 10-year spread nearer to 200 points before Aussie bonds showed real value.
"I would tend to be looking to sell Australia into the U.S. or Canada," he said. "The Aussie/U.S. spread is historically narrow at the moment -- something nearer to 200 basis points against the U.S. would be better value."
Crofts said the budget package showed Australia's government was going for growth, and although interest rate cuts may help the short end, the risk of easings hitting the currency would leave longer-dated paper vulnerable.
With subdued growth and minimal price pressures, Canada offered one of the most attractive fundamental backgrounds of the dollar-bloc markets, both Crofts and Lewis said.
"I would favour Canada among the lot," said Lewis. "They are making solid progess towards meeting fiscal targets, the economy is still quite subdued and inflation is only 1.2 percent anyway -- and on a falling trend. That is all very constructive for Canadian bonds."
German chocolate manufacturers have shunned cocoa markets during August after taking cover at around the 1,000 stg a tonne levels seen in London futures last month, traders said.
"Futures are trending higher and a strong sterling versus the mark is another deterrent," one said.
"The past few weeks have been the dullest in years."
London September was up six stg at 1,020 at 1030 GMT.
Industry was reasonably covered and not worried about price rallies while high summer temperatures discouraged chocolate consumption and some plants remained shut, traders said.
Market speculation focused on an Ivory Coast harvest around 800,000-900,000 tonnes, which could bring a deficit of around 150,000-250,000 tonnes in the 1996/97 season.
"That's why I think the current consumer attitude might be dangerous given that fourth quarter prices may well be a few hundred sterling higher," another trader said.
"But it would be a creeping increase and there is also a danger of a price collapse if the Ivory Coast suddenly comes up with record volumes and qualities," he said.
Ivorian beans were quoted at 2.30 marks per kg for Aug/Sept compared with 2.17 marks in late July while the fourth quarter 1996 and first quarter 1997 price of 2.33 was up 0.09-0.11.
The cocoa butter ratio was marginally higher at 2.78 for 1996 dates, implying a 6.50 marks outright price for Aug/Sept and 6.45 for fourth quarter, liquid, ex-works.
The first quarter 1997 ratio of 2.72 implied a mark price of 6.40.
Mazda Motor Corp. is using a foreign celebrity -- its own president -- to revamp its image in Japan.
Company President Henry Wallace, a famous figure in Japan as the first foreigner to head a major Japanese firm, is to star in Mazda's new advertising campaign.
The 50-year-old Wallace will appear in full-page advertisments in five major Japanese newspapers Thursday.
Mazda broke with tradition by putting a foreigner in the driver's seat and is doing so again with its new sales promotion. It is rare for a Japanese company to use photos of its top management in a campaign to sell its merchandise.
The ads will have a full picture of Wallace standing to the left and his comments about the company on the right.
Wallace has become a celebrity in Japan after being appointed president at Mazda, Japan's fifth-largest carmaker, in June.
Sent over by Ford Motor Co. several years ago to help turn around the troubled Japanese automaker, Wallace was given the top spot when Ford increased its equity stake in the company to about one-third.
Wallace comes originally from Edinburgh, Scotland, and has been employed by Ford for 25 years. He first joined Ford's British operation.
Mazda decided to use Wallace in its ads as the result of a survey showing that Japanese found him likeable and impressive, the spokesman said.
The company has been struggling with poor demand for most of its cars and has been in the red on a group net basis for the past three years. The losses were the result of a number of errors in assessing the market, analysts say.
Mazda is hoping a straight-forward approach in its ad will distinguish it from its rivals and capture the attention of consumers.
The ads displaying Wallace will carry the slogan "Practical car, Enjoyable car, That's Mazda."
The ad will be promoting its new compact recreational vehicle, the Demio, which will debut in Japan next week. Compact recreational vehicles are one of the hottest selling models for all Japanese automakers.
Mazda has had a relationship with Ford for many years. In May, Ford raised its stake in Mazda to 33.4 percent from 25 percent -- which gave it control of the management.
Ford sent Wallace to Japan to represent its interests in Mazda two years ago.
"If successful, Wallace may continue appearing in Mazda's future ads," the company spokesman said.
Italy's hard-left leader Fausto Bertinotti, who has said he is firmly opposed to the sale of state telecoms group Stet, is unlikely to bring down prime minister Romano Prodi over the issue, analysts said on Tuesday.
But Bertinotti, who appears determined to bring as much influence as possible to bear on Prodi, could severely weaken the thrust of the centre-left government's ambitious reform programme, they said.
The leader of the marxist-inspired Communist Refoundation party, has threatened to pull the rug from under Prodi's feet if the government presses ahead with the Stet privatisation. The threat sent ripples through financial markets on Monday.
The government says it wants to sell the company by the end of March of next year.
"Bertinotti's strategy is to strongly influence the Prodi government," said Italian diplomat and commentator Sergio Romano. "I don't think he wants to hold firm to the point that he would force the government's collapse."
Bertinotti has also served warning that he will make his influence felt when the government unveils its 1997 budget plans before parliament next month.
Prodi badly needs the support of Bertinotti's party, which holds the balance of power in the lower house of parliament with 35 deputies, although some opposition politicians may come to the government's rescue in favour of the Stet sell-off.
The communists warned on Tuesday that if Prodi seeks to out-manoeuvre them by enlisting opposition support for the Stet privatisation, the government's survival would be at stake.
"It appears evident that the continuous offers of support for the government from the opposition regarding the Stet privatisation contain mortal dangers for the Prodi government," said Oliviero Diliberto, parliamentary leader of the communists.
"Any change in the (government) majority could not fail to raise questions over the government itself. And Prodi knows this," said Diliberto in a statement.
Bertinotti is likely to do all in his power to hold up the Stet sale in the knowledge that he can count on support for his cause from other quarters, including the trade union rank-and-file and parts of the post-fascist National Alliance.
"Bertinotti wants to reaffirm his power over the government," said Gianfranco Pasquino, a political scientist.
"To bring the government down would require an explicit vote of no-confidence and that would be dangerous for Bertinotti because it would isolate him," he added.
Others have suggested that a botched Stet sale might also suit the interests of some elements of Italian big business which is said to want to be in a position to influence the privatisation process.
"The truth is that he (Bertinotti) is not defending the workers," Guido Rossi, an influential company lawyer told Rome daily La Repubblica.
"He is playing to the interests of that part of private capitalism which wants to have as a partner a rickety state to do business with," said Rossi, a former chairman of Consob, the stock exchange regulatory council.
Critics of the Stet sale have said they fear that Mediobanca, a secretive Milan merchant bank which is the prime mover and shaker in the Italian corporate world, would try to wield disproportionate influence in a privatised Stet.
Bertinotti is unlikely to back down over Stet unless he is given assurances that the government will retain strong influence over a privatised group by wielding a "golden" share.
"He wants the golden share to be very golden," said Pasquino. Bertinotti is also likely to insist that a Stet under private ownership should not be allowed to lay off workers for a number of years.
Most of them were on the move; struggling along the road on foot, carrying small bags or nothing at all. But some just stood by the side of the road, their eyes glazed over in shock.
Word of the threat by the commander of Russian troops to use all means at his disposal to flush Chechen fighters out of Grozny had spread like wildfire among local people who had clung to their battered homes through two weeks of fighting.
"To us it sounds like the Russians are going to flatten the city and leave nothing standing," said Alik Magishvili, his infant nephew on his back.
The stream of refugees fleeing the fighting in the capital turned on Tuesday into a human flood.
"The whole city is on its way out. We've been in a basement for 14 or 15 days and couldn't stand it any more," said red-haired Nina Madayeva, carrying just a small handbag.
The refugees looked drawn and pale, exhausted by daily bombardments and a lack of food and water. Many of them said the air raids threatened by General Konstantin Pulikovsky, who on Monday gave them 48 hours to escape, had already begun.
Madayeva said 12 warplanes had bombed her southwestern district one after another at around 1 a.m. (2100 GMT Monday).
"This is the destruction of the Chechen nation," she said.
The fighters, on the other hand, seemed to be thriving on the Russian threat to bomb them to bits.
"Leave? We'll never leave," said Ruslan, whose group of about 30 fighters had just scattered when an artillery round hit close by. "The Russians will pay for what they have done."
The rebels appeared to have more weapons than at the beginning of the conflict in December 1994. Then it took Europe's biggest army more than two months and hundreds of casualties to conquer the city. Thousands of civilians also died in the process.
"The fighters are coming into the city, not leaving it," said Rezvan Elbyev, driving a jeep full of fighters.
"We have seen everything the Russians can drop on us. We have enough power for the defence of Grozny. We have to defend our freedom and to do that there are 10 times more of us than in 1994," he said, brimming with confidence.
"We are all mortal. If we die, we die as heroes. We are death troops," he said, his voice like a machinegun, his green eyes darting back and forth. "The enemy will be smashed one way or another if he dares show his face in the city."
In another part of Grozny, fighters in a jeep were putting green Islamic headbands on two unusual new recruits -- young women already touting Kalashnikov assault rifles.
The threat of a new showdown sent more than 1,000 people heading for Chernorechye in the southwest, even though Pulikovsky said only the official corridor to the east was safe.
Certainly, there were risks to leaving by the southwest. A group of Russian soldiers, clearly drunk, brandished their guns at civilians trying to escape. Some refugees complained they had been roughly handled and even robbed by troops.
Many elderly people, some on crutches, were caught up in the crush to cross a ruined railway bridge which looked as if it might give way at any moment. A mentally handicapped man being pushed in a wheelchair gazed wildly about him.
The people fleeing on Tuesday were those left after the younger, fitter and wealthier had fled in cars and buses. Yet there were still some who seemed unable, or unwilling, to leave.
Most of those who remained in the city centre ran between buildings, dodging snipers and the regular crash of explosions which sounded from the east.
Several old people just stood on the pavement near the deserted central market, staring vacantly into space.
Amina Khadayeva, 27, said she would stay with her mother in their one-storey brick house in the city centre.
"Of course we're afraid. But my mother doesn't want to leave," she said. "Our house was looted last time we left. If we leave now there'll be nothing left when we come back."
-- Morgan Stanley said analyst David Togut reduced his earnings estimate on First Data Corp to $2.72 per share from $2.75 for 1996, and to $3.25 from $3.35 for 1997.
-- kept his rating at outperform.
-- Togut was not available for comment.
-- shares dropped four to 76-7/8. The stock was the second most actively traded on the New York Stock Exchange.
Commerce Minister Bolla Buli Ramaiah said on Tuesday that India saw a big opportunity to boost exports to East African countries after holding a trade show in Kenya this month.
"In East Africa there is a $1.0 billion export that we can easily catch," he told a seminar on export development in the Indian capital.
He did not give further details.
India said earlier this year that its exports to the entire continent of Africa totalled 20.74 billion rupees ($582 million) in 1994/95 (April-March).
Ramaiah said India needed to boost infrastructure facilities if it wanted to increase its share of world trade to one percent by the year 2000 from 0.64 percent in 1995/96.
Roads, ports, power and banking facilities must be improved to help exporters, Ramaiah said. Interest rates were high and credit availability was not sufficient to boost exports, he said.
Pioneer 79.5 31/8-2/9 E.C.Mexico/Lake Charles W112 Citgo.
Emily 72 28-29/9 Dos Bocas/USG W128 Ashland (failed).
Vergina 82 3/9 Sidi Kerir/Genoa W92.5 Exxon.
Rating Announcement As of 08/19/96.
Issuer		: Lafayette Redevel. Auth. Economic devel.
Closing European vegetable oil prices on Tuesday were higher in slow directionless trading.
"The market isn't in the doldrums, but people don't know where it is going next and while the situation lasts, more players will drop out until business picks up again," said a trader.
Palm oil prices were higher following the steadier close in Malaysia after the release of market-friendly export data by a local cargo surveyor.
Data issued by Malaysian cargo surveyor Societe Generale de Surveillance (SGS) put local exports between Aug 1-20 at 398,288 tonnes against 391,644 tonnes during the same period in July.
Asian traders said the SGS figures seemed to indicate that exports will remain high during the rest of August.
However, European traders were inclined to remain cautious owing to the high palm oil production levels and the lack of any substantial Chinese buying.
Crude palm oil cif Europe closed $10 up after Sep traded at $507.50 a tonne cif.
Products were around $10 higher with no further business reported.
Coconut oil closed unchanged to $20 after Jul/Aug traded at $777.50 and Aug/Sep at $735 a tonne cif while palmkernel oil was $5 higher and tradeless.
Soft oils finished with soy oil 1.50 to 0.50 guilders up after Oct traded at 94.50 and Nov/Jan at 96.75 guilders a 100 kg fob ex-mill.
Dutch/EU rape oil closed 1.50 guilders higher after Oct traded at 94.50 guilders.
NOTE - Net loss for 1995 includes extraordinary charge for write-off of unamortized loan costs attributed to the Texas Gas Fund I, which was paid off out of proceeds from the facility.
The contract backlog of Philippine construction giant DMCI Holdings Inc rose sharply to 8.1 billion pesos as of August this year due to the flurry of construction activity in the country, an official of the company said on Tuesday.
DMCI's share price jumped 75 centavos to close at 17.75 pesos on Tuesday on talk of the robust growth in the firm's contract backlog.
"The sharp increase in our contract orders indicates the level of construction activity in the country and DMCI's increased construction capability," the DMCI official said.
The increase in DMCI's construction capability could be gauged from the rise in its manpower to 16,000 from 9,000 last year, she said.
The UK Treasury said M4 money supply figures published today were "encouraging" and showed the data moving back into the government's three to nine percent monitoring range.
Yields on three-year benchmark corporate bonds ended at a new year high of 12.49 percent on Tuesday as buying sentiment soured amid acute shortage of liquidity, brokers said.
The supply of additional 400 billion won by the central Bank of Korea to commercial banks on Tuesday through three-day repurchase agreements was unable to relieve the shortage, they said.
The central bank supplied 500 billion won on Monday.
Traders said scanty new issues at 4.2 billion won was one of the positive factors.
Three-month CDs also closed at a new high for the year at 15.80 percent. Traders said high yields on commercial papers pulled the CD yields up.
Traders see the liquidity situation remaining tight until Thursday when the banks are required to meet their won reserve requirement deadlines.
Auction results for a seventh tranche of 1.5 trillion lire worth of three-year Italian Treasury fixed rate bonds (Btp) and a seventh tranche of 1.5 trillion lire of five-year Btps, both carrying an 8.25 percent coupon.
Note - Comparisons are with a previous auction on August 1 of a fifth tranche of three and five-year Btps.
Brazilian privatized power utility Light has asked an economist to look into the upcoming sell-off of Rio de Janeiro's state-owned electricity company Cerj, a local news agency said.
Light has asked economist Luiz David Travesso to make the necessary financial arrangements to prepare the company to bid for Cerj when it is auctioned on the Rio stock exchange at the end of November, according to Invest News.
Travesso said he did not know yet whether Light would bid for Cerj on its own or as part of a consortium, Invest News said.
Light would have a monopoly in electricity distribution in Rio de Janeiro state should the acquisition take place. Light supplies the city of Rio de Janeiro with electricity, while Cerj operates in the interior of the state.
Travesso, who used to be a vice-president of ING Bank, assisted a consortium led by French power firm EDF to buy a 34 percent controlling stake in Light when it was privatized in May. He is now a member of Light's administration council.
Former Zimbabwean president Caanan Banana is mediating between Sierra Leone's government and rebels in an effort to push forward the nation's stalled peace process, government sources said on Tuesday.
"The Reverend Caanan Banana was requested by the OAU secretary general to mediate between the government of Sierra Leone and the RUF (rebels) to move the peace process forward and reach a comprehensive peace treaty," one source told Reuters.
The source said that Banana, Organisation of African Unity (OAU) special envoy to Sierra Leone's war-ravaged neighbour Liberia, had had talks with Revolutionary United Front (RUF) rebel leader Foday Sankoh in Ivory Coast.
Banana, Zimbabwe's president from 1980 to 1987, was expected in Sierra Leone on Wednesday for talks with the government.
Sierra Leone's newly elected president, Ahmad Tejan Kabbah, who took over after the army restored civilian rule in March, had talks in Ivory Coast with Sankoh in April.
The two sides agreed to extend a ceasefire, which has been generally holding, but remain deadlocked on the issues of disarmament and withdrawal of foreign troops helping the government. The rebels took up arms in 1991.
Russia's central bank introduced controls on the amount of promissory notes banks can issue and withdrew licences from 22 small banks, the bank said on Tuesday.
From October 1 banks will have to include promissory notes, a high-risk instrument popular in Russia's cash-strapped economy, when calculating their capital ratios, Dmitry Budakov, head of the central bank department monitoring banking activity on financial markets, told a news conference.
The new regulation sets a 200 percent ratio of promissory notes issued plus one half of other companies' liabilities held by a bank to its shareholder capital.
The ratio will fall to 100 percent on March 1, 1997.
Russian banks, excluding the country's biggest, Sberegatelny Bank Rossiiskoi Federatsii (Sberbank), had issued 17.80 trillion roubles of promissory notes by June 1 this year, Budakov said.
The central bank has been tightening controls over the banking sector to head off fears of a new banking crisis, taking over several large institutions in recent months and withdrawing licences of dozens of smaller banks.
The central bank withdrew the licence of Tveruniversalbank, the biggest issuer of bank promissory notes, last month after taking it into temporary administration. Shareholders have decided to have it declared bankrupt and restructured.
On Tuesday the central bank said it had withdrawn licences from 22 commercial banks. A central bank spokeswoman said around 2,000 banks remained active in Russia.
Knape & Vogt Manufacturing Co said Tuesday it expects to improve its financial performance in fiscal 1997 and in the future.
Earlier, Knape & Vogt, which makes shelving and home furnishing and storage items, reported a loss of $0.78 a share after $0.48 in charges for the fourth quarter ended June 30. A year ago, its fourth quarter income was $0.37 a share.
Sales for the quarter were $40.3 million, up from $40.1 million a year ago.
For fiscal 1996, it earned $0.01 a share after charges, compared with year-ago income of $1.40 a share. Fiscal year sales were $163.0 million, down from $168.2 million.
"Although we are disappointed with sales and earnings in fiscal 1996, our recent actions position Knape & Vogt for improved performance in fiscal 1997 and beyond," Allan Perry, president, said in a statement. "We are taking aggressive action to revitalize sales and enhance shareholder value."
The company said one of the early benefits from its restructuring is expected to be an improvement in company-wide plant utilization. It reiterated that annual savings from the restructuring are expected to be about $0.40 a share, spread across fiscal 1997 and 1998.
NOTE - First quarter net income included a one-time pre-tax charge of $17.7 million, or $0.13 per share. After tax, the charge was $12.5 million.
Swedish engineering group Atlas Copco reports for the six months to June 30, 1996, compared to the same period a year earlier.
A Reuters poll of 13 analysts found the average forecast for Atlas Copco's half year profit after financial items was 1.52 billion crowns. The company's sales were forecast at 12.50 billion crowns.
The Philippines' net oil import bill rose to $1.228 billion in the first six months of 1996 from $1.214 billion in the same period last year, Energy Secretary Francisco Viray said on Tuesday.
Philippine consumption of petroleum products in the first half of 1996 increased by 4.9 percent to 65.776 million barrels from the year-ago 62.711 million, Viray said.
Viray said the average price of imported crude oil increased to $17.66 per barrel FOB from January to June from $17.12 per barrel in the same period last year.
The average cost of imported petroleum products also climbed to $22.62 per barrel FOB from $22.11.
First Bancorp said Tuesday its board of directors set a two-for-one stock split payable September 13 to shareholders of record August 30.
The stock split will increase First Bancorp's total shares outstanding to about 3.014 million.
Newcor Inc said Tuesday it has a good outlook for the fiscal fourth quarter that began August 1, since customer requirements for the parts produced by the components and assemblies segment are generally strong during this period.
It added that its special machines segment assembly and ship schedules are forecast to be much higher compared with the third quarter, and start-up and integration costs will not be as high as they were in the third quarter.
Earlier, Newcor reported third quarter earnings of $0.13 a share, compared with earnings from continuing operations of $0.05 a year ago.
Newcor added that there is a "good level" of interest in its Machine Tool and Eonic divisions. As previously announced, the divisions are being sold.
Corsaire Snowboard Inc said it entered a definitive agreement for the acquisition of 75 percent of the issued and outstanding shares of Mutual Exchange Canada.
Mutual Exchange Canada is a fully automated commercial barter exchange company that has been in operation for a period of 18 months.
Terms were not disclosed.
A group led by Centennial Energy Partners said Tuesday it holds a 6.74 percent stake in Dreco Energy Services Ltd or 415,800 common shares.
In a filing with the Securities and Exchange Commission, the group said stake includes the purchase of 157,900 shares between June 28 and August 14 at prices ranging from $22.625 to $27.500 per share.
MRS Technology Inc, encouraged by momentum in orders for a line of its printers, said Tuesday it plans to "soft pedal" its recent effort to court a merger partner.
The company cited two orders from U.S. semiconductor manufacturers for its recently introduced Model 5200GHR PanelPrinter in this year's fourth quarter.
Although it plans to ease away from courting a merger partner, the company said it will continue to consider forging relationships with two or more beta-site users for the company's new Model 70000 PanelPrinter.
Mexico's Communications and Transport Ministry said on Monday it awarded a $90.5 million contract to Hughes Communications International Inc, a unit of Hughes Electronics Corp, to build a satellite.
Hughes won the contract in a bidding process in which it said it would build the satellite in two years. It is due to replace Mexico's existing Morelos II satellite in 1998.
The new satellite will have 12 times more power than Morelos II, 48 transponders in frequency bands "ku" and "c" versus 22 transponders in Morelos II and cover virtually the whole American continent, the ministry said.
The Federal Reserve's Federal Open Market Committee left interest rates unchanged at its meeting Tuesday, leaving economists and analysts pondering what the central bank might do next.
Some analysts said that while Fed policy-makers resisted pressures this summer to raise short-term rates, economic data over the coming weeks may force them to raise rates later this year.
However, other analysts -- and some former Federal Reserve officials -- said that mixed economic data and a touch of political pressure might be the recipe for steady monetary policy through the November presidential election.
Members of the Federal Open Market Committee are expected to be careful as they juggle upcoming data, such as the August employment report due Sept. 6, and the vicissitudes of the political race for the White House.
"Every member of that FOMC is going to be very careful," said Preston Martin, a former Fed vice chairman who is now chairman of HomeVest Financial Services Inc. in San Francisco. "That means that the odds build up about no action. No action is safer than some action."
The Fed has held its target for the federal funds rate -- the rate banks charge each other for overnight loans -- at 5.25 percent since January.
However, recent economic indicators suggest consumer spending and the labour market were heating up in August, although signs of a slowing manufacturing sector were seen as offsetting the growth signals.
"Before the Fed can either raise or cut interest rates in an election year, they better have a solid economic justification for doing that," said Sung Won Sohn, chief economist at Norwest Corp. "Without the justifications, they would rather wait."
Some analysts said the latest string of economic indicators painted a blurry economic outlook, meaning the Fed will probably stand pat until the picture clears.
"I think they will stand still and await clarification on where the economy is going," said Lyle Gramley, a former Fed governor and currently an economist at the Mortgage Bankers Association of America.
How long could that take? "Well, I think the Fed will move sometime later this year... It may well be until very late this year, possibly even December, before the Fed knows for sure whether it needs to move or not," Gramley added.
Gramley believes the U.S. economy is fundamentally strong but said "some tightening will be necessary down the road."
Martin agreed that the Fed is likely to remain on hold, "not just because of the election, but because this (current economic scene) is a central banker nirvana."
Martin cited a positive inflation outlook as one of the main reasons keeping the Fed on hold over the next few months.
But not everyone agrees with that scenario.
"My guess is (a rate rise) is going to be right back on tap after the August data start coming out," said Salomon Brothers economist Brian Jones. "There is a good chance they'll go (up) at the Sept. 24 FOMC meeting."
Despite signs of strong economic growth, inflation remains quite low historically, and Fed leaders have refrained from raising rates in the absence of more troubling data. But upcoming employment data could change all that, analysts said.
Persistent job growth threatens to shatter the economy's recent low-inflation trend and the Fed will not stand idly and watch that happen, they said.
"The job market is still quite firm. We'll need to see jobless claims move back up pretty soon in order to confirm the economic slowdown story," said Josh Feinman, global markets economist at BT Securities Corp.
The four-week moving average of jobless claims' reached a seven-year low last week, adding to recent warnings of pending wage inflation.
That also suggests the economy continues to churn out new jobs at a pace likely to drag the unemployment rate lower than July's 5.4 percent reading, analysts said.
The absence of faster inflation amid such robust job creation has many analysts scratching their heads and wondering how long the Fed will hold monetary policy steady.
"Strong job growth has persisted long enough that the Fed will certainly have to stand up and take notice," said Gary Schlossberg, senior economist at Wells Fargo Bank.
Critics initially blasted the Fed for failing to raise rates at its July FOMC meeting when a report just two days later showed 239,000 new jobs created in June.
But a month later the July report showed a decline to 193,000 in new non-farm payrolls and, perhaps more important, a slight drop in average hourly earnings.
Fed officials had predicted a slowdown in real gross domestic product from the robust 4.2 percent second-quarter clip. The dip in payroll growth suddenly made that forecast look brilliant, analysts said.
"So far the Fed has done the right thing by keeping its powder dry," Schlossberg said. "There is still a risk the Fed could fall behind the curve, but right now it looks like the economic slowdown is happening."
These are some of the leading stories in the official Iraqi press on Tuesday. Reuters has not verified these stories and does not vouch for their accuracy.
- Iraqi Foreign Ministry spokesman condemns the U.N. air embargo against Sudan.
- British vessel loaded with rice arrives in Umm Qasr port.
- Turkey says it will support Iraq against trade sanctions in the U.N. Security Council.
- Commentary attacks Kurdish parties who control northern Iraq.
Robert Diamond is believed to have signed a two-year contract with BZW as head of global markets worth at least 5 million pounds stg. Incentive payments are also included in the package and could push the final figure higher. The appointment of Mr Diamond has been viewed as a coup for BZW, who previously worked as head of the global bond operations of Credit Suisse First Boston in New York.
Generous bonus and share option plans are being introduced by British Biotech in an attempt to attract top level international executives. The company will ask next month's annual meeting to approve one new scheme that could increase bonuses by 50 percent and another that will give new recruits option packages worth in excess of four-times their salaries.
Argos yesterday revealed a 45 percent leap in half-year profits before tax to nearly 32 million pounds stg. Chief executive Mike Smith said consumer confidence was picking up, but the better than expected profits were mostly due to low prices, tight control of costs and a rise in products in the Argos catalogue.
The construction company Costain Group is in talks with the Stock Exchange after finding it is in breach of official listing requirements as three of its shareholders hold over 75 percent of its equity capital. The Exchange could force the cancellation of Costain's quotation if the issue cannot be resolved.
The shoemaker Chamberlain Phipps has gone into receivership after the Bank of Scotland, its main lender, refused to back a rescue package. The collapse comes two years after Chamberlain was floated on the stock market, valued at 75 million pounds stg. A rescue package would have involved the Bank of Scotland putting an extra 5 million pounds stg into the company.
A new survey from the Royal Institution of Chartered Surveyors will boost the housing market today showing that house prices in all regions of England and Wales have either held steady or risen during the last quarter. The survey also forecasts that the number of households caught in the negative equity trap will fall to about 100,000 within the next year.
It emerged last night that many regional electricity companies want to delay the introduction of competition in household supply. The industry regulator, Offer, admitted it was considering the case for a phased start to competition. The Government said its position remained that competition should start from the scheduled date and the Trade and Industry Department is getting increasingly annoyed over the industry's reluctance to prepare for competition with full vigour.
The number of businesses offering combined payment and loyalty schemes grew yesterday with Lakeside Shopping Centre in Thurrock and American Airlines both announcing plans. Lakeside has teamed up with Midland Bank to offer a Visa card that will combine with the centre's existing loyalty scheme, and American Airlines has launched a Royal Bank of Scotland MasterCard that gives points in the airline's AAdvantage frequent flyer programme.
Britain's first walk-in doctor's surgery at a train station was opened yesterday. The 200,000 commuters who pass through London's Victoria Station daily will be able to get check-ups, vaccinations, asthma treatment and a well-woman clinic. Sinclair Montrose Healthcare, the owner, expects the project on platform one to recoup its 115,000 pounds stg launch costs in under a year. They plan to open at least one more station-based Medicentre before Christmas.
Britain's share of world trade in manufactured goods reached an all-time low of 4.7 percent last year after falling steadily for ten years. A survey from the Association of German Chambers of Industries and Commerce shows Britain broadly maintained its position in the European and North American markets, but that its share of export markets in Asia has plummeted.
The music arm of the former Thorn-EMI conglomerate, EMI Group remained a favoured takeover candidate after its first day of trading as a separately quoted company, its shares rising 37.5p to 14.60 pounds stg. EMI is the only top five music company not owned by a multimedia giant, and analysts believe it is still attracting interest as a potential bid candidate.
The deadline to express an interest in Kleinwort European Privatisation Investment Trust was met by 10 fund management companies yesterday. Among those expressing an interest are Kleinwort Benson itself, TR European Growth Trust and Morgan Grenfell Trust Managers. It is understood that a decision on the preferred option will be made within the next two weeks.
Shares in Sony Music Entertainment (Japan) Inc were ask-only in Tuesday morning trade, depressed by the company's announcement on Monday of a sharp downward revision of its earnings forecast, traders said.
On Monday, Sony Music said it saw its parent current profit for the six months to September 30, 1996, at 4.30 billion yen, down from its earlier forecast of 10.30 billion yen.
It also said its parent current forecast for the 1996/97 business year was 11.50 billion yen, down from its earlier forecast of 19.40 billion yen.
CompuServe Corp. Tuesday reported a surprisingly large $29.6 million fiscal first-quarter loss, blaming a decline in the number of subscribers to the No. 2 online service and spending on a new family-oriented service and improvements.
CompuServe predicted a second-quarter loss but said earnings would improve in the second half of the fiscal year.
"We are taking steps to revitalise CompuServe," said Chief Executive Bob Massey.
The company said it would cut 150 jobs, or 4 percent of its work force, as part of a cost-cutting programme expected to save $30 million on an annualized basis.
The Columbus, Ohio-based company said that as part of the cost cuts it would sell its Spry Inc. unit, whose Web browser trails far behind similar products made by Netscape Communications Corp. and Microsoft Corp.
The loss of $29.6 million, or 32 cents a share, in the company's fiscal 1997 first quarter ended July 31 compared with last year's quarterly profit of $26.8 million, or 36 cents a share. The results included a pretax charge of $17.7 million, or 13 cents per share.
CompuServe last month said it expected to post a loss for the quarter, but the actual loss was greater than Wall Street expectations.
The company reported revenues of $208.6 million for the quarter vs. $186.5 million in the previous year's quarter.
Massey, expanding on last month's comments, said the number of people cancelling their subscriptions exceeded the 900,000 new subscribers to the company's online services, producing a "modest decline" in subscriber numbers.
As of July 31, the company's flagship CompuServe Information Service had 3.3 million members worldwide, the company said. Total subscribers, including members of NiftyServe, a joint-venture Japanese online service, numbered 5.2 million.
CompuServe, founded in 1969, is second only to America Online Inc., with 6.2 million subscribers.
CompuServe also blamed the loss on investments in its family-oriented WOW! service and infrastructure improvements.
It said it expected losses to continue into the second fiscal quarter, hitting 10 cents to 15 cents a share, due to the costs of rolling out the latest version of the software needed to access the service, Compuserve 3.0, and the release of a feature that makes WOW! look different to teenagers than it does to their parents.
But the forecast for the second half of its fiscal year was rosier.
"Coupled with new product releases and aggressive marketing campaigns, we expect the third and fourth quarters to improve with subscribers topping the 7-million mark, including our Japanese licensee service, NiftyServe," Massey said in a statement.
The company said it also expected increased revenue from advertising and fees for electronic commerce.
CompuServe is a former subsidiary of tax preparer H&R Block Inc., which spun off the company and is selling its 80 percent stake in CompuServe.
CompuServe announced its financial results after markets closed. Its stock dropped 12.5 cents to $13.50 on Nasdaq in earlier trading.
American Matsushita Electronics Co said on Tuesday that it plans to add to its Troy, Ohio factory a new production line for manufacturing cathode ray tubes (CRTs) for projection TV sets.
The company said it will invest more than $20 million in the new production line, and that it expects to create 160 new jobs.
The new line will start operation from the third quarter of 1997 with an annual capacity of about two million tubes for projection TV sets, the company said.
American Matsushita Electronics Co is a subsidiary of Matsushita Electric Industrial Co Ltd.
Twice winner Colin Montgomerie withdrew from this weekend's German Open on Tuesday after his father was taken ill.
The British golfer, German champion in 1994 and 1995, has gone to Scotland to be with his father, James, secretary at Royal Troon.
Ian Woosnam will replace Montgomerie at the head of the European rankings if he finishes in the first two.
The entry also includes local favourite Bernhard Langer and Ryder Cup captain Seve Ballesteros.
Montgomerie's absence means he will drop to third in the world rankings, with Ernie Els now set to become Greg Norman's closest challeger.
Chase Manhattan Corp said Tuesday Michael Urkowitz, an expert in banking information technology, has been named to head its credit card division to succeed the retiring Charles Walsh.
Analyst Daine Glossman of Salomon Brothers noted that Urkowitz has been involved in retail systems technolgy at Chase going back to six months before last year's announcement of the merger of the old Chase Manhattan into Chemical Banking Corp.
She said it was doubtful the change reflected any problems with credit card loss rates. Virtually all U.S.. banks involved in credit cards have been experiencing higher loss rates for the past several quarters.
At the "old" Chase, Urkowitz managed a unit called InfoServ where revenue grew to $200 million from $25 million in a span of about eight years. The unit's activities include cash management and securities processing.
He said there are now many different offerings in the marketplace and it is the job of the bank "to put the right offering in front of each customer and thereby grow customers and grow usage."
"In order to do that, it has become an information management-driven business," he said.
While Chase is eyeing international expansion in credit cards, Urkowitz said "it is not our intention to attempt to be a credit card issuer everywhere in a very short period of time." He said Chase will target markets where its processing platform can be used and other capabilities are already in place. "We would expect to expand in a very carefully targeted, step-by-step type of way," he said.
Outstanding credit card loans during Walsh's tenure have grown from about $180 million in 1974 to $24 billion presently. The increase reflects not only growth in the business but also the 1991 merger of the Manufacturers Hanover Trust Corp into Chemical in 1991. Walsh began running the card unit at Manufacturers Hanover in 1974.
During the five-month transition, Walsh will continue to represent Chase Manhattan on the MarterCard international Board.
Urkowitz will continue to report to executive Donald Boudreau, to whom Walsh has also reported.
The central bank on Tuesday denied a newspaper report that said Taiwan's president had urged the bank to study how to control capital outflows to China.
The Economic Daily News reported in its Tuesday edition that President Lee Teng-hui had raised the issue in a meeting on Monday with central bank governor Sheu Yuan-dong.
The report said Lee also had pressed the central bank to find ways to better manage indirect investment by Taiwanese banks in China in an apparent bid to further limit the island's economic exposure on its long-time communist rival's turf.
"The report, which was headlined the central bank to study controlling capital outflows to China, is absolutely not true," the bank said in a statement.
It said Sheu attended a routine monthly meeting in the Presidential Office on Monday to hear a speech related to biotechnology prospects, but did not meet Lee.
Speculation that Taipei might change its China policies has mounted since Lee cautioned on August 14 that the island needed to avoid over-dependence on the mainland as a target for investment.
A new financial instrument to allow trading in tax credits in Australia's 2.18 million bale wool stockpile is expected to produce the first market in titles to the liquidation value of the world's largest pile of wool.
In the lead-up to trading which begins next week, through Australia's Macquarie Bank Ltd, nobody knows if the tax title market will be big or small.
"We think if growers were given the opportunity of accessing their equity early they would be more than eager to consider it," Peter Walsh, assistant director of the Wool Council of Australia, told Reuters.
"From a buyer's point of view, it's a very leveraged instrument, a leveraged play on the wool price," he said.
"From what I understand there would be ample buying interest in the market place."
"We're still working on the document that allows us to sell entitlements. Until we have (that) and (buyers and sellers) understand all the risks, it's going to be hard to gauge demand," he said.
Coming weeks would show how that progressed, he said.
Walsh sees up to 100,000 interested sellers of wool tax credits -- the growers who have paid the statutory authority Wool International (WI) a 4.5 percent levy on raw wool sale proceeds in the past three years for stockpile debt repayments.
Australia's wool stockpile is presently valued at about A$1.8 billion, but carries debt of about A$1.0 billion, leaving about A$800 million in available equity after all costs have been met by WI.
WI has estimated the end net value on liquidation of the stockpile at between A$600 million and A$900 million after discharge of debt, with A$750 million the most likely figure.
Current estimates of the first WI equity return are between very late 1998 and late 19990. "It could even be longer than that," Walsh said.
The basis of tax credit unit prices will be set by the estimated value of WI on liquidation of the stockpile (about A$750 million) divided by total tax paid (A$360 million), expressed in net present value terms.
Until a present report in progress on valuations in relation to each A$1.00 in tax was complete it would be hard to speak values, Heyman said.
While the new instrument would generate cash flow for wool growers, it would not affect the wool market itself, Heyman and Walsh both said.
"All you're doing is swapping one participant for someone else," Heyman said.
One of China's propaganda tsars has vowed that boosting the flagging fortunes of Communist Party publications will be his top task next year, the People's Daily said on Tuesday.
"This is a solemn political mission ... the most important of important tasks," the newspaper quoted Xu Guangchun, deputy head of the Communist Party's Propaganda Department, as saying.
Authorities want to boost the circulation of the People's Daily -- the Communist Party mouthpiece -- and Qiushi magazine -- a bi-monthly devoted to political theory -- in government offices, factories and schools, the newspaper said.
The circulation of the People's Daily in Beijing alone has plunged by about 30 percent this year, alarming propaganda officials, a Chinese source said.
The Communist Party controls the mass media, using them as tools of ideological propaganda.
But some newspapers and magazines are less tightly policed than others, and they have made inroads in capturing a market share from the party's main publications.
The People's Daily and Qiushi magazine are a dull read compared to the hundreds of racier, market-oriented publications that have sprung up in recent years.
The People's Daily is still China's leading newspaper, with daily circulation of about two million, due largely to mandatory purchases by state agencies and enterprises.
The newspaper said that in the drive to boost sales, the giving of gifts or "excessive" rebates would not be permitted.
The newspaper industry faces a range of problems, including a surplus of publications, duplication of content and low economic return, said Liang Heng, deputy director of the State Press and Publication Administration of China.
Some papers are losing money and have been forced to merge with lucrative ones, the official Xinhua news agency quoted him as saying.
Nine large newspapers have merged with 12 small newspapers and magazines so far, the agency said.
Liang said mergers, a new trend in China, should be carried out cautiously. Currently, only newspapers run by organisations of the Communist Party are allowed to merge with other publications.
Grain trading in Ukraine has ground to a halt as the government has locked dealers out of state-controlled elevators in order to fill its own contracts, traders said on Tuesday.
Industry sources say the government has quietly ordered the provinces to hold on to this season's limited supply of grain, much of which has already been purchased through forward contracts signed in May and June but which now might not be released until November.
"They just closed the doors to the (grain) elevators, so brokers can't take the grain," said a spokesman from the Ukrainian Mercantile Agrarian Exchange (UMAE), which handles more than half Ukraine's grain trade.
The spokesman said trading on Ukraine's 22 exchanges stopped earlier this month.
"Since August 7, there have been no deals," he said. "Why should traders buy if they can't move what they buy?"
The UAME spokesman said dozens of forward contracts of up to 10,000 tonnes had been sold but the ban might not be lifted until mid-November, when the most forward state contracts mature.
The government needs to buy about five or six million tonnes of grain, traders say.
But agriculture ministry food resources department head Mykola Solodky, also president of the Ukrainian National Exchange Association, said there was no official government ban.
"If anyone has complaints they can come to the ministry and we will address it," he said.
But brokers say the government has not made any overt moves.
"There's nothing to stop them from calling the oblasts, who call the elevators and say, 'Don't move any grain,'" said Bohdan Chomiak, a representative of the Washington-based Chemonics commodities research group in Kiev.
"They call it restrictions, but the farms are now dealing grain to the state," said a Western trader whose company does not hold forward contracts but believed a ban is in place.
Ukraine has forecast the 1996 grain harvest at 28 million tonnes -- the lowest since the late 1940s. It also hopes to export one million tonnes of grain this year.
Only about eight percent of Ukraine's grain is bought and sold on the relatively new exchange system -- the majority is bartered for fuel and machinery or used directly as animal feed or sold straight to the government.
Without a written government order as evidence of force majeure, brokers are liable for breach of contract.
"What's critical, and what's destructive, is people have forward contracts maturing in August, and they have put down money in advance," Chomiak said.
NOTE - Hokkai Can Co Ltd manufactures cans for canned foods.
Japanese trust banks' asset quality and a secular erosion of their wholesale banking franchise remain the greatest concern in the assessment of the credit quality of the trust banking sector, according to Moody's Investors Service.
Moody's on Tuesday outlined the strengths and weaknesses of the Japanese trust bank sector in a newly published report.
Despite having incurred significant credit expenses in fiscal 1995 in addressing their Jusen exposure and other problem assets, "nonperforming loans continue to remain on the trust banks' balance sheets, and trust sales of real estate collateral continue to be difficult and time consuming," Moody's noted.
Moody's said the banks are also challenged by a secular erosion of their operating franchise amid further disintermediation, growing competitive pressures from city banks and securities companies as they enter the trust banking market, and the potential for consolidation of Japan's banking industry.
"A significant rise in core earnings expected by the banks in fiscal 1996 is only an accounting adjustment," Moody's said.
In the current environment characterized by a depressed real estate market, Moody's said opportunities for lending growth are limited. The report also notes that trust assets under discretionary management, especially pension trusts, will continue to grow, but they will not be a significant contributor to earnings.
Fees and commissions from custodial services and real estate sales and brokerage remain vulnerable to weak market conditions, Moody's said.
The trust banks' "weak financial fundamentals will likely continue through this century," Moody's said.
Note: the figures were unaudited.
Authority, 10  Park Plaza,  8th  Floor, Room  8450,  Boston, Massachusetts 02116 (telephone 617/222-3216).
			 By Wesley G. Wallace, Jr.
National Bank (BNB) said.
August 22, at the average accepted price.
Ken Caminiti hit a grand slam in the first inning and added a two-run single in the second and Scott Sanders carried a no-hitter into the seventh as the San Diego Padres coasted past the Montreal Expos 7-3 Monday.
Caminiti blasted a 1-1 pitch over the right-centre field wall for his career-high 27th home run and fourth career grand slam. It was his second grand slam this season.
Caminiti has been suffering from a case of dehydration and received treatment earlier in the day.
"I'm trying not to do too much at the plate," Caminiti said. "I'm just trying to hit the ball and stay back on the pitches. I'm actually thinking opposite field. It's great to be home, it's the first night in a while I got any sleep."
The Padres, playing their first true home game since August 4, have won three of four following a three-game losing streak. San Diego completed a three-game series against the Mets in Monterrey, Mexico, on Sunday.
Sanders (6-4) held Montreal hitless through the first six innings, allowing only a one-out walk to Darrin Fletcher in the second. But with two out in the seventh, Fletcher singled sharply to right.
"Anytime I can get a lead that early it's great," Sanders said. "I just go out there and throw strikes.
"I honestly didn't know (about the no-hitter), it's probably better that I didn't. When everybody cheered me in the seventh after the hit by Fletcher, I was wondering what was going on. When I got back and saw the hit on the board I knew."
Sanders gave up two runs and three hits with one walk and eight strikeouts over eight innings.
Pedro Martinez (10-8) took the loss.
The Padres took a half-game lead over the idle Los Angeles Dodgers in the National League West with the victory.
Dave Silvestri hit a two-run homer for the Expos, who have dropped four of five.
In Chicago, Kevin Brown pitched seven scoreless innings and Gary Sheffield and Devon White each drove in a pair of runs as the Florida Marlins snapped a three-game losing streak with a 4-3 victory over the Cubs.
Brown (12-10) allowed four hits, struck out eight and walked none to lower his major league-leading earned run average to 1.90. Brown posted his 100th career victory.
Robb Nen recorded the final five outs for his 25th save.
Amaury Telemaco (5-7) gave up three runs and three hits before leaving with shoulder stiffness with one out in the second. Four Cubs relievers combined to allow one run and four hits thereafter.
Sammy Sosa blasted a two-run homer, his career-best 40th of the season. It is the 12th time a Cub has hit that many, the last being Ryne Sandberg (40) in 1990.
In Houston, Sean Berry's bases-loaded walk from Ramon Morel (2-1) with one out in the bottom of the 13th forced home Brian Hunter, who had led off with a double, to give the Astros a 2-1 squeaker over the Pittsburgh Pirates.
Alvin Morman (2-1) pitched a scoreless 13th for the Astros, who have won seven of their last 11 games.
Pittsburgh took a 1-0 lead in the sixth on a solo homer by Jeff King, his 24th. The Astros tied the game an inning later when third baseman Charlie Hayes' throwing error allowed Hunter to score.
Houston set team records by drawing 14 walks and leaving 20 runners on base.
In San Francisco, Marvin Benard hit a game-tying homer and Tom Lampkin singled home Barry Bonds, who had singled and stolen second, for the go-ahead run in the seventh to lift the Giants to a 5-4 victory over the New York Mets.
Rod Beck came on in the ninth and gave up one-out singles to Bernard Gilkey and Todd Hundley, putting them on first and third. But Beck notched his 27th save by inducing Carlos Baerga to hit into a game-ending double play.
Bonds hit his 35th homer, a three-run shot, in the first. It was the third straight game in which Bonds homered in the first, the second time Bonds had a three-game home run streak and the sixth time of his career.
Tim Scott (4-5) got the win despite allowing a run and two hits over two innings of relief. Pete Harnisch (8-9) took the loss.
Gilkey went 4-for-4, including three doubles, and drove in two runs for the Mets.
In Cincinnati, Walt Weiss hit a two-run homer and drove in three runs and Larry Walker added a solo homer and two RBI as the Colorado Rockies defeated the Reds 6-3 in the rubber game of a five-game series.
Colorado starter Mark Thompson (6-8) allowed two runs and six hits over 7 2/3 innings, striking out four without a walk.
Mark Portugal (8-9) took the loss.
Aggregate 2-2. Guingamp win due to the away-goal rule and qualify for the UEFA Cup.
Silkeborg win on aggregate and qualify for the UEFA Cup.
Bank Negara Malaysia announced it will borrow for a one-month deposit by 0315 GMT as part of its open market operations.
Bank Negara regularly intervenes in the local interbank market to keep a check on liquidity or set interest rates as part of its efforts to fight inflation in the economy.
But, it has not been in the market for nearly three months despite rising liquidity that has pressured rates downward, threatening to thwart the Bank's tight monetary policy.
The central bank last borrowed for one-month deposit on May 24 at 6.95 percent.
Harry's Farmers Market Inc said it projected the results for the second quarter of  fiscal 1997 to be the first profitable one since the second quarter of fiscal 1994.
The food products supplier said it expected earnings per share to range between $0.04 and $0.06 for the second quarter of the fiscal year, compared to a loss of $0.19 per share in the same year-ago period and a loss of $0.05 per share in the first quarter of the fiscal year.
The second quarter of fiscal 1997 began May 2, 1996 and ended July 31, 1996, it said.
Italian oil product consumption rose 2.6 percent in July to 8.0 million tonnes compared with July 1995, according to data from trade group Unione Petrolifera.
The coupon and conversion price will be decided on September 5.
Private Ethiopian coffee firms, responsible for 50 percent of the country's record exports of 102,000 tonnes in the current year to end-September, expect exports to rise even further on the back of government reforms.
Senior coffee industry officials also confirmed earlier forecasts of a rise in production because of favourable weather and a renewed enthusiasm among farmers, who now receive their earnings from the crop in a timely fashion.
"Our success this time could be attributed to the favourable policy measures taken by the government to help us expand our business," Aschenaki G. Hiwot, secretary-general of the private Ethiopian Coffee Exporters Association, told Reuters.
"Reform undertaken in the financial sector and the task force established by the government to seek swift solutions whenever we have problems have also helped in the improvement of our business," Aschenaki said in an interview.
Aschenaki said that as a result of "encouraging government support" enjoyed by private exporters, many of the 47 exporters were now in the process of improving their facilities.
He said private exporters were building modern stores (warehouses) and installing high-technology coffee-cleaning machines so as to be able to export better quality coffee.
Ethiopia exported 102,00 tonnes of coffee during the 1995-96 period, the highest volume in its trade history. But it earned $279.5 million -- much less compared to $330.9 million it received for exporting 78,420 tonnes of coffee in 1994/95.
The government and private exporters have blamed poor global prices for the decline in export earnings. Aschenaki would not say what percentage rise he saw in 1996/97.
Ethiopia's annual coffee production, which has ranged between 200,000 and 250,000 tonnes in recent years, is expected to top 300,000 tonnes, government agriculturalists said.
Private exporters sold 48,640 tonnes of the 1995/96 crop for $141.8 million while the state-owned Ethiopian Coffee Export Enterprise exported 53,183 tonnes for $137.72 million.
Ethiopian private coffee exporters were branded as economic saboteurs and their businesses were closed during the rule of the dictator Mengistu Haile Mariam who was ousted in 1991.
Under the liberal economic policy declared by the government of Prime Minister Meles Zenawi in 1992, licences for private exporters were restored and they were allowed to participate in the industry previously crippled under a state monopoly.
Ethiopia is Africa's third largest producer of coffee after Uganda and Ivory Coast.
Coffee is Ethiopia's main export commodity and accounts for more than 60 percent of all foreign exchange revenues, according to government figures.
Six ran.
Winner owned by Godolphin and trained by Saeed Bin Suroor.
Trade was active in the Panhandle area Tuesday, USDA said. Slaughter steers and heifers were $1.00 to mostly $2.00 higher. Feedlots reporting good inquiry from buyers.
Sales reported on 41,200 slaughter steers and 23,500 heifers; 109,700 head confirmed for week to date which includes 19,500 formulated cattle and 900 previously contracted cattle to be shipped this week and 44 loads or 1,500 CME cattle.
Note - all cattle prices based on net weights FOB the feedlot after a 4 percent shrink.
Slaughter Steers - Select and Choice 2-3 1150-1250 lbs 68.00, few early 67.00. Select and Choice 1-3 1200-1350 lb Holsteins 60.00-62.00.
68.00, few early 67.00. Select, few Choice 2-3 1050-1150 lbs 66.00-67.00.
Sprint Corp is expected to enter the race to make the Internet as widespread for customers as the telephone, The Wall Street Journal reported on Tuesday.
The telecommunications giant, which has 15 million customers and nearly $13 billion in annual revenue, plans to announce on Tuesday a new Internet-access service for consumers, a Sprint executive said.
Though Sprint has been operating a major portion of the Internet since 1992 to serve businesses, the Kansas City, Mo., company has yet to target residential customers, a move that many industry watchers have been waiting for.
The move follows those by several other telecommunications companies that have set their sights on the Internet, ranging from regional Bell operating companies to MCI Communications Corp and AT&T Corp.
Sprint will roll out its service in phases. Beginning on Tuesday, the company will invite 200,000 of its residential long-distance customers to use the service for free until it is made available to the general public in the autumn.
Like its rivals, Sprint will ultimately charge users $19.95 for unlimited monthly usage. Users can also opt for a pay-as-you-go plan whereby they would not pay for a month of service if they did not use it.
Sprint executives expect their service will be used by 20 percent of the Internet's customers with a year, although they decline to quantify that number.
Gulf War hero Colin Powell lent his prestige and popularity to the Republican presidential ticket on Tuesday, making a surprise appearance with Bob Dole and Jack Kemp as they campaigned for a strong national defence amongst U.S. war veterans.
The Veterans of Foreign Wars convention in Kentucky was a natural setting for Powell, a retired general who helped lead U.S. troops to victory in Operation Desert Storm in the Gulf, and for Bob Dole, who nearly died in the Second World War.
"If America is prepared to fight many wars and greater wars ... then we will fight fewer wars and lesser wars and perhaps no wars at all," Dole said, accusing the Clinton administration of inadequate spending on modernising U.S forces while relying too much on U.N.-related missions.
"I will never commit the armed forces, not one single soldier, without the prospect of victory," said Dole, who also faulted the Clinton administration's policy on "terrorist" states like Iran, Cuba and North Korea.
Powell, trying to keep the spotlight on the Republican ticket rather than on rumours he may be Secretary of State in a Dole administration, said he and Dole "haven't had any discussion" about a cabinet post and their priority was to "get the team elected."
With his well-received speech at the Republican convention last week, the retired general and best-selling author helped the party project an image of tolerance and inclusion. Republicans hope Powell, a moderate on social issues, can help reel in the independents Dole needs if he is to oust President Bill Clinton from the White House in the Nov. 5 election.
Powell had to remind well-wishers who came to greet Dole at the Louisville airport: "I'm not running for anything."
Introducing Dole at the VFW rally, he praised him as a champion of a strong defence who "proudly wears a purple heart" for his war wounds and has a vision for restoring "traditional values" while ensuring that opportunities are open to all Americans.
Opinion polls show that the harmonious Republican convention, and the energy Kemp infused into the campaign, helped Dole cut into Clinton's lead. But Dole was still trailing Clinton, who has all the advantages of incumbency and at age 50 is 23 years younger, and Clinton's ratings were likely to rebound after the Democratic convention next week.
Dole and Kemp for the past few days have made the economy the centrepiece of the campaign, pledging to cut income taxes by 15 percent and balancing the federal budget while giving scant details of how they plan to carry that out.
Dole said it was "not difficult to do both" without cutting benefits for veterans and the elderly. He said his response to naysayers was the same thing a Second World War general told Germans who demanded his surrender: "Nuts."
Although House of Representatives Speaker Newt Gingrich and others have mentioned Powell as a potential Secretary of State, Dole has been silent. His press spokesman Nelson Warfield said: "You don't hear Bill Clinton talking about his retirement plans and you won't hear Bob Dole talking about his cabinet. There is plenty of time for that after Nov. 5."
Joking with reporters briefly aboard the plane, Dole would not say where he planned to vacation next week. Asked whether he would visit Chicago right before the Democrats convene, he made a characteristic quip.
"There's something going on there next week -- not much," he joked. Asked whether he would watch the Democratic convention on television, he said, "I didn't watch ours -- just the good parts."
But an aide reminded reporters that Dole was kidding and said he would watch at least portions of the convention that will formally renominate Clinton as his opponent in November.
The China Securities Regulatory Commission has ordered the suspension of trading in the shares of Shandong Bohai following irregularities in its interim report, the Shanghai Securities News said on Tuesday.
The comission has begun an investigation into the irregularities and trading of the firm's shares will be suspended until the probe is completed, the newspaper quoted a commission spokesman as saying.
The newspaper gave no more details.
The last quoted price for the A shares of Shandong Bohai was 13 yuan at the close of trading on August 16 on the Shanghai stock exchange. The stock did not trade on Monday.
The stock of Tylan General Inc. jumped Tuesday after the maker of process-management equipment said it is exploring the sale of the company and added that it has already received some inquiries from potential buyers.
Tylan was up $2.50 to $12.75 in early trading on the Nasdaq market.
The company said it has set up a committee of directors to oversee the sale and that Goldman, Sachs & Co. has been retained as its financial adviser.
Longs Drug Stores Corp said Tuesday it had adopted a shareholders rights plan designed to deter hostile takeover attempts.
Shareholders will receive one right for preferred stock for each common share held as of close of business on September 16.
Each right will allow shareholders to buy one-hundredth of a newly issued share of preferred stock at an exercise price of $130 dollars.
The rights are exercisable when a person buys a 15 percent stake in Longs, excluding certain Long family members. At that time rights holders may buy shares of the company, or of the acquiring company if it is the surviving entity, having a value of twice the exercise price of each right.
Earlier Longs said it plans to open 12 new stores during this fiscal year with a further 12-15 planned for opening during the next fiscal year.
Longs posted second quarter profits of $13.5 million or $0.69 a share on sales of $681.5 million compared with earnings of $12.4 million or $0.62 a share on sales of $646.3 million in the year-ago period.
Longs shares closed 3/8 lower at 40-1/4 on the New York Stock Exchange.
Shares in Pathe traded 1.3 percent higher on Tuesday after BSkyB Plc reported a 66 percent increase in full-year profits.
At 0855 GMT, Pathe was up 16 francs at 1,238.
Pathe has a 17 percent stake in BSkyB. Pathe is the former media part of conglomerate Chargeurs which on June 21 split into Pathe and textile group Chargeurs International.
Trading of Guangdong Investment Ltd shares and derivative warrants was suspended on Tuesday afternoon at the company's request pending an announcement, the Hong Kong stock exchange said.
Brokers noted speculation that the suspension was related to a share placement designed to finance its projects.
A sales manager at a regional brokerage said that according to one rumour the shares were being placed at about HK$5 per share. Another trader said some 80 million shares were thought to have been placed at HK$5.22.
This month, Guangdong Investment said it would invest HK$750 million through 1997 in new projects and plant expansion in Guangdong province.
Guangdong Investment officials were not available for comment.
The Bulgarian lev slipped to 198.60-199.00 per dollar in low volumes from opening at 198.00/50 on the interbank market as foreign currency supply continued to fall, dealers said.
"The lev retreated to 199 per dollar due to a general reluctance of market makers to offer foreign currency as they expect the lev to fall further," a commercial bank dealer said.
Banks bid for low foreign currency volumes, mostly on behalf of final clients, but supply was even lower, which put the lev under growing pressure, another dealer said.
Burundi's new Tutsi strongman Pierre Buyoya has shocked the Tutsi-dominated army by sacking its powerful chief-of-staff in an apparent first step to tighten control over the unruly military.
Analysts said top officers were still stunned on Wednesday over this and two other dismissals seen as ending army impunity in the violent, ethnically-divided nation.
The army, dominated by the minority Tutsi tribe, is locked in a guerrilla war with Hutu rebels, in which aid workers say around 1,000 people are dying each month.
The decision to replace army chief-of-staff Col Jean Bikomagu with little-known Lt-Col Vincent Niyungeko reinforced Buyoya's credentials as a moderate determined to bring the army under control.
Bikomagu was heavily implicated in a recent U.N. report on an attempted army coup in October 1993, in which the country's first Hutu president was assassinated. The coup attempt sparked an ethnic civil war in Burundi in which around 150,000 people have died.
"No sooner had the president been murdered than the officers regained control of their troops and Bikomagu retook supreme control of the army," said the U.N. report, a copy of which was seen by Reuters though it is yet to be published.
As part of the changes Lt-Col Georges Muhorako takes over from Col Pascal Simbanduko as chief of staff of the gendarmerie, while Lt-Col Alfred Ngurunziza replaces Gedeon Fyiroko as head of the military at State House (presidential palace).
"People were saying that Buyoya was a prisoner of certain individuals but these changes show that he is free to choose whom he wants," presidential spokesman Jean-Luc Ndizeye told Reuters in a telephone interview. Army spokesmen declined to comment on the shakeup.
East African states including Tanzania, Kenya, Uganda and Rwanda imposed sanctions on Burundi following a coup d'etat on July 25 that brought Buyoya to power and deposed Hutu president Sylvestre Ntibantunganya.
Ntibantunganya remained holed-up at the American embassy residence in the capital on Tuesday, where he has been for almost a month.
Burundi's prime minister Pascal Firmin Ndimira on Tuesday said sanctions could lead to famine in Burundi and urged the states to lift the embargo, according to state radio.
"Ndimira warned that sanctions imposed on his country may cause famine," the radio said, adding that internally displaced Burundians would be particularly hard hit.
Meanwhile, almost 5,000 Rwandan Hutu refugees returned to Rwanda from a camp in Ngozi province in north Burundi on Tuesday under pressure from the Burundian army, according to the United Nations High Commission for Refugees (UNHCR).
Refugees at Magara camp charged the army maintained a campaign of intimidation on Monday night, burning huts and warning the refugees they had to go home.
"They came at night, burned huts and yelled at us that we had to go home," one refugee, who declined to be identified, told Reuters. Up to a dozen huts on the outskirts of the camp were still burning on Tuesday.
UNHCR officials instructed army guards at the camp to deny access to Reuters photographer Corinne Dufka, arguing that journalists had reported lies about events at Magara.
Aid workers are divided over whether army tactics at Magara add up to the forced expulsion of refugees, illegal under international law.
"The rain prevented further movements of refugees from Magara Camp in Burundi," a UNHCR official told Reuters in Butare.
Butare governor Anatase Samuhungu told Reuters some of the refugees, accused of participation in Rwanda's 1994 genocide, could expect to find problems in their home villages.
Around two million Rwandan Hutus fled their homes for Zaire, Tanzania and Burundi after Tutsi rebels defeated the Hutu army and ousted the government, blamed for a genocide against up to a million Tutsis and moderate Hutus.
European and Japanese banks have drafted an agreement that would slash billions of dollars from the credit risks they run up with each other in the cross-border deposit market, the Financial Times reported.
British banking experts have drafted a standard form agreement they believe would allow banks a legal way of offsetting their deposits with each other if either should default, the newspaper said.
One London banker closely involved in drafting the agreement said: "What the agreement says is that if I lend you $100 million in sterling and you lend me $100 million in yen, we are even," the newspaper reported.
Barclays Banks plans to sign agreements to offset deposits in this way with about 30 to 40 banks that are its biggest trading partners, the paper said.
Imperial Chemical Industries Plc (ICI) said on Tuesday it had terminated joint venture discussions with the Yu Gang Company of Chongquing, China.
ICI's wholly owned Tioxide Group Limited signed a memorandum of understanding with the Chinese company in December 1995 covering the proposed establishment of a venture to produce titantium dioxide in China.
Tioxide and Yu Gang were, however, unable to reach agreement on the joint venture during their negotiations and mutually agreed not to proceed further, ICI said.
CME lumber futures continued to move higher Tuesday on strong cash markets, peaking at the close by posting new contract highs in September and November, traders said.
September closed up $8.30 per tbf at $394.80, a new contract high. November set a new high of $361.00 before closing up $6.30 at $359.70 per tbf. Other months ended $4.70 to $4.00 higher.
Reports that cash spruce values continued to advance and were likely trading in the $415 to $420 per tbf area prompted short covering into buy stops at new highs.
"The amount of trading activity has slowed but the (cash) market still has underlying strength because the consuming end of the market is still good and there is not enough wood in the pipeline," said Paul Court, independent lumber analyst. "Markets top with excess and there is no excess (wood) around right now."
Traders noted that mills have order files sold out into the second week of September. Wholesalers have also reduced offerings of spruce, they said.
Nigeria's year-on-year inflation fell to 31.0 percent in May from 31.8 percent in April despite a big increase in May's month-on-month figure, the Federal Office of Statistics (FOS) said on Tuesday.
Month-on-month inflation rose to 5.5 percent in May from 1.3 percent in April and compared with 6.2 percent in May 1995. The year-on-year rate in May last year was 89 percent.
"The rise in the index was largely attributable to substantial increases in the prices of food items, personal household items and cost of educational materials," the FOS said.
Uncertainty about the value of benchmark Dated Brent on Tuesday stifled activity on most North Sea spot crude markets, traders said.
The only Brent cargo nominated into the forward paper chains, loading Sept 4-6, was kept by U.S. major Texaco who then sold it on -- but on a private and confidential basis.
Only one physical Brent -- an August 29-31 loader -- was on offer at Sept Brent +8 cents, but some felt the market for September barrels was three or four cents firmer.
The prompt SepT/Oct paper spread traded as low as +56 cents, down about nine cents from early talk. Oct/Nov was valued at +48 cents, about four cents weaker than on Monday.
"There was a broad feeling in the market that Brent was overheated and had to come down," said a trader.
Brent CFDs slid with the balance of this week talked at Oct +60/+68 cents from +80/+85 cents late on Monday. Next week's dates, which fetched Oct Brent +47 cents early on Tuesday, traded later at +42 cents.
"The other grades should come down but there hasn't been a trade today," said a trader.
Mediterranean refiners found little to tempt them from the few cargoes on offer as they weighed up options in the face of appalling margins although there was no sign any had cut runs.
Syria's Sytrol was under pressure from buyers to keep prices down in current price talks for September cargoes.
One trader said Sytrol had come down from an offer of Dated Brent -30 cents to -38 cents while lifters were holding out for Dated -45 cents. "I think the talks will last all week," an oil company trader said.
Officials at Phoenix, Arizona, airport said they aim to win Deutsche Lufthansa and KLM as new clients on the heels of British Airways and LTU International Airways.
Phoenix marketing director Ann Hastings said she aims to establish several European routes to the Arizona state capital over the next 18 months.
She told Reuters in a telephone interview while on a Germany sales tour: "We want to plan with Lufthansa or KLM within the next 18 months."
These could be the parent airlines or their respective charter subsidiaries, Condor and Martinair, she noted.
British Airways launched the first international service to Phoenix on July 1 with the start of a daily DC-10 flight from Gatwick.
German leisure airline LTU has announced it will start a weekly Monday service from Duesseldorf on November 4.
Hastings said: "Our top priority is to ensure and support these two initial European routes because the success of these routes will influence other airlines."
She noted: "Travellers are very familiar with California and Florida and want new destinations. Arizona is tipped to be the next 'in' destination."
Germany is Arizona's largest European passenger travel market followed by the UK, she added.
Growth in Britain's M4 money supply slowed to 8.8 percent in the first half of the year, the Bank of England said Tuesday, while lending by banks and building societies continued to increase.
The slowdown in money supply growth from annual rates of 10 percent in May and June brought the figure back within the government's monitoring range of 3 percent to 9 percent for the first time since November.
Some economists said it could suggest a softening in future inflationary pressures.
However, the British Bankers' Association said a strong 539 million pound ($833 million) increase in consumer credit in July could point to a strengthening of consumer spending.
"The strength of consumer credit and housing market activity within the lending figures will be seized upon by the Bank of England as a potential threat to the inflation target," said Andrew Cates, an economist at UBS.
Seasonally adjusted M4 -- a broad measure of money supply which comprises cash in circulation, personal and commercial bank deposits and certificates of deposit -- grew 0.4 percent in July from June, down from 0.7 percent in June.
Strong money supply growth is often seen as a pointer to future inflation and central bank Governor Eddie George has warned that interest rates might have to rise if it continued unchecked.
However, its reliability has been thrown into question this year because of special distorting factors, such as a rash of corporate mergers and acquisitions.
The slowdown will, therefore, offer little new ammunition to Chancellor of the Exchequer (Finance Minister) Kenneth Clarke if he wants to cut interest rates this fall.
Clarke has cut rates four times since last December to their current 5.75 percent level, overruling the Bank of England on the last occasion in June.
PT Telekomunikasi Indonesia (Telkom) closed at $28 in London on Tuesday. It recorded the day's low of $27.725 and the day's high of $28.375. Volume was 35,500.
Its previous close on Monday as $27.
One ADS represents 20 ordinary shares -- Jakarta newsroom +6221 384-6364.
Last Trades of Australian stocks listed on overseas markets. Previous close in brackets.
Merrill Lynch & Co.
Smith Barney Inc.
Roosevelt & Cross, Inc.
Dean Witter Reynolds Inc.
A.G. Edwards & Sons, Inc.
Lebenthal & Co., Inc.
Samuel A. Ramirez & Company, Inc.
Ten billion crowns and 16 years after the first production licence was awarded in the Norwegian sector of the Barents Sea, oil companies are again eyeing its Arctic waters as a potential source of crude and gas.
But while Norway has revised terms and conditions for exploration to attract renewed investment there, industry sources say the latest licensing round will be make or break for the region.
"The Barents Sea enigma is still not resolved," said an oil company official. "But we're looking at the last major (licensing) round. If it's a success and someone strikes oil, then we will have a new boom in the area. If not, then I think people will cut their losses and give up."
Since 1980 53 wells have been drilled in the southern area of the Barents, yielding nearly two billion barrels of oil equivalent (boe), or five percent of discovered resources on the Norwegian continental shelf, according to the state Oil Directorate.
More than 90 percent of the finds have been of natural gas, the largest being the Snoehvit field, which holds around 100 million cubic metres of oil equivalent. None have proved to be of commercial interest.
"It's very remote up there and expensive to develop and operate," said an industry analyst. "Given that and the threat to gas prices from liberalisation, you'd be a brave man to start developing in the Barents. There are a lot of other gas plays closer to hand."
Norway, which pumps about three million barrels per day, is the world's second largest oil exporter after Saudi Arabia thanks to fields in the North and Norwegian Seas.
Twelve companies have nominated for blocks they want to see offered under the licensing round, known as the Barents Project.
The energy ministry will invite bids for Barents acreage in the third quarter. Awards will be announced in April 1997.
Company officials said new, more flexible licence conditions for the Barents had helped attract interest.
"The results to date have been less than encouraging, no major economically-viable discoveries have been made," said Matt Toner, exploration manager for Amoco Norway . "But in any (oil company) portfolio it's important to have some frontier, high-risk area and therefore potential high rewards."
Norway's state oil company Statoil, along with working group partners Saga Petroleum , Norsk Hydro, Amoco, Elf and Mobil , has been studying data collected from previous exploration drilling.
"We have reassessed the results from previous drilling and we have decided to continue working towards applying for a concession," said Yngve Vassmyr, Statoil project manager.
"We have a better understanding of the geology and potential of the Barents, but I would emphasise that the risk is still high. A lot of money has already been spent in the area and we should keep that in mind."
Vassmyr said advances in technolgy would help improve commercial viability of any finds.
In the 1980s the economics of development required discoveries of between 315 and 630 million boe. Today new technology means prospects of around 200 million boe -- about the size of the Balder and Njord oilfields -- can be seriously considered, he said.
Others considering applying for concessions are Amerada Hess , Conoco , Enterprise Oil , Neste, Norsk Agip and Phillips .
Industry sources are quick to note the absence of the big oil players British Petroleum , Royal Dutch/Shell Group and Esso from the round.
"It's a question of different priorities for each company, but I think it's significant they are not taking part," said a source at one of the companies considering applying.
"Maybe they've done their homework. There are better opportunities elsewhere to put your money."
The Polish zloty recouped early intraday losses and closed slightly stronger against the basket of currencies against Monday but trade remained light.
Dealers said zloty swings resulted from domestic client orders and from closing long currency positions after a recent zloty weakening against the basket.
The zloty was at 2.7395/00 to the dollar, flat from opening at 2.7375/00 and Monday's close of 2.7385/95 and at 1.8384/89 to the mark, up from opening and Monday's 1.8390/00.
It was at 1.77/1.75 percent from the trading band centre, a touch firmer than Monday's close at 1.70/1.66 percent.
The move followed July's reserve money figures, which showed the average daily level falling to 31.86 billion zlotys from June's 32.1 billion, the first fall this year.
Some traders said the NBP limited the scope of today's operation to make it apparent that it did not need to drain the market heavily in order to achieve its August average reserve money level target between 31.93 and 32.63 billion zlotys.
On the money market one-day rates were not moved by either the reverse repo rate cut or July's reserve money result as overnight rates closed at 16.5/17.5 percent just down from opening at 16.8/17.8 percent and Monday's 16.0/17.5 percent.
Tomorrow/next rates were at 17.7/18.7 percent against opening's 17.5/18.5 percent and Monday's 17.0/18.0.
Britain's exporters are making noises about improving fortunes but economists say that any recovery may be thwarted if European markets remain flat.
Britain's struggling manufacturing industry is plagued by weak export markets and stockpiles of unsold goods. But recent survey evidence has suggested an export revival is on the way, offering a glimmer of hope.
"The prospects are reasonable for an improvement in exports although recovery is patchy," said Sudhir Junankar, associate director of economics at the Confederation of British Industry.
"Exports should grow quite well over the second half of the year," he added. The CBI industrial trends survey showed export orders picked up modestly in the four months to July while the British Chambers of Commerce second quarter report said manufacturing exports rose for the first time in five quarters.
But Junankar said the risk to a revival was weak European markets. "Companies expect Europe to improve but there's a danger recovery could be delayed somewhat."
Economists agreed that an improvement in European economies was the key for British exports and said the currency markets could slam the door shut on an export revival.
The strength of the German mark, which European countries chasing the holy grail of European Economic and Monetary Union (EMU) are duty bound to track, means many of Britain's continental partners cannot blow off the cobwebs of recession.
And since about 57 percent of British exports head for Europe, that has posed serious problems to manufacturers.
"UK exporters say order books are up, albeit from a weak level, but the mark remains too high to ease European recovery," said Michael O'Hanlon, chief international economist at PaineWebber. "Britain's export markets will continue to languish."
The mark's strength means German exports, upon which the European powerhouse relies, are uncompetitive. And with most continental European countries trying to cut public deficits to meet EMU constraints, economic austerity has become entrenched.
There are glimmers of hope. German GDP fell 0.5 percent quarter-on-quarter in the first three months of the year. A small pick-up is expected in the second quarter, and further improvement thereafter.
"There's a more than 50 percent chance of British exports recovering this year," said Ian Fletcher, policy executive at the British Chambers of Commerce. "I would hope the talked of improvement in EU markets will prompt a modest recovery."
But he warned that the export revival was not uniform. "Medium-sized firms continued to report lower orders and sales."
Fletcher said it was unrealistic to expect exports to return to the heady levels of late 1994 and 1995, when they acted as the engine of economic recovery.
Nonetheless, he said exporters reported improved conditions despite two key obstacles -- sterling's rally and the BSE crisis.
The pound jumped from 2.17 marks late last year to 2.38 last month, although it has since drifted back to 2.29. And British firms selling abroad have had to deal with the effects of the ban on British beef and beef products following the "mad cow" scare.
O'Hanlon said the fact exporters are reporting improved conditions was significant. "But those remarks have to be put into context in terms of the low level at which this growth is starting."
Official figures from the Office for National Statistics support the idea of an export revival. They showed Britain exported nine percent more, in value terms, to the rest of the world in the three months to May, than in the previous quarter.
But O'Hanlon said the figures did not tell the whole story. "Export values have been going up because inflation has been falling, it's not so clear that volumes have been rising."
Certainly the British Treasury's forecast that Britain's export markets will grown by about 6.5 percent in 1996, is starting to look suspect, even though exports to the United States and Far East have held up well as economic growth remains robust there.
"Volumes are going to slow because of the general malaise in Europe. Downgrade expectations for the rest of this year and the first part of next," O'Hanlon said.
No new fixtures reported on Tuesday.
Pryce Properties Corp said on Tuesday Philippine Strategic Investments Holdings Ltd took a 6.32 percent stake in its wholly owned unit, Pryce Gases Inc.
Philippine Strategic Investments, a Cayman Islands-registered fund managed by Clemente Investment Management Ltd, subscribed to 13.5 million shares of Pryce Gases at 4.20 pesos per share for a total of 56.7 million pesos, the company said.
Pryce Gases manufactures industrial gases with six plants operating in central and southern Philippines.
President Clinton Tuesday signed legislation to suspend the 24.4 cents per gallon federal tax on diesel fuel used by recreational boaters.
The suspension, in effect from Aug. 27, 1996, to Dec. 31, 1997, was included in a law to raise the minimum wage.
"Seven days from now, our waterways will be less hazardous for many boaters who should be able to purchase the same red-dyed, non-taxed fuel used by commercial mariners, which is more widely available around the country," Michael Sciulla, government affairs director of the Boat Owners Association of the United States, said in a statement.
Recreational boaters have complained that the government's fuel-dying program caused fuel shortages and safety problems.
The Treasury Department must send a report to Congress by April 1, 1997, on alternative means of collecting the diesel tax, first levied in 1994.
Foreign banks in London have told the government that the role of London's City as a financial centre is being damaged by Britain's right to opt out of European monetary union, the Financial Times reported.
The Foreign Banks and Securities Houses Association, in a letter to the UK treasury, has called for Britain to make a decision on particpating in monetary union, arguing that the uncertainty harms their members' ability to plan, the newspaper said.
The association represents 180 financial institutions in London.
Firms listed on the Warsaw Stock Exchange recorded slightly better July earnings after a weak first half, but analysts said it was too early to tell if there would be an earnings rebound this year.
In July, 48 firms on the main and parallel markets showed a real net profit growth year-on-year compared with 34 firms over the first six months.
"July earnings were average, but better than the weak results recorded in May and June, so they're returning to normal rather than worsening," said Pawel Tarnowski, an analyst at Raiffeisen Capital and Investment.
Analysts had attributed the lower profits in the first four months of the year to this year's long winter.
But they said unspectacular May and June earnings had hastened the downward correction that followed the main market's 90-percent rise this year to a 27-month high of 14,282.2 points on July 5.
Analysts had expected one more growth spurt but instead got a 14-percent downtrend followed by a stable period that lasted until last week when investors started buying in anticipation of better earnings.
But analysts said many market players, especially foreign investors, would await preliminary third-quarter results due in October to be sure profits had taken a bullish turn.
Jacek Dzierwa, Polish equity analyst at Salomon Brothers in London, said better July earnings were a good sign but nothing definite, as Polish auditors were likely to find losses previously overlooked.
"I'm taking those monthly results as an indication, but nothing tangible," Dzierwa said.
Firms showing good results tended to rise on the bourse on Tuesday, such as top gainer PPABank, up by the daily maximum 10 percent.
But analysts said the July results were not likely strong enough to maintain the WIG's recent four-session, six-percent jump to Tuesday's close at 13,183.8 points.
Among individual firms Swarzedz disappointed recording a loss despite improved sales, they said.
Paint makers Polifarb Wroclaw and especially Polifarb Cieszyn looked particularily strong even though better earnings were expected due to a seasonal surge in sales, they said.
Raiffeisen's Tarnowski said Cieszyn recorded its best monthly result in history.
Note - The 1985 farm bill mandates the trigger release price as the higher of 140 pct of the nonrecourse loan rate for a commodity or target price.
Levels I, II and III have matured.
Level IV includes feedgrain entered after Oct 4, 1991, and wheat after July 23, 1981.
Levels V and VI have nil release prices.
Level V includes wheat and barley entered after May 14, 1982, and corn and sorghum after July 1, 1982.
Level VI includes wheat entered after Jan 19, 1984.
The 1985 farm bill eliminated reserve commodity calls.
The Bank of England said it provided the UK money market with around 64 million stg of unspecified late assistance.
Jungfraubahn Holding AG, which owns the transportation network surrounding the towering Jungfrau mountain in central Switzerland, said on Tuesday it would issue new registered shares at 220 Swiss francs each.
Jungfraubahn, which last month said it wanted to broaden its shareholder basis, will offer 150,000 registered shares with a face value of 20 francs for sale from August 21 to August 27.
Jungfraubahn is by far the largest operator of scenic, tourist railways in Switzerland. Its goal is to market the prime tourist attractions of the Jungfrau region, which includes the Eiger, Moench and Jungfrau mountains as well as the picturesque towns of Grindelwald, Wengen, Muerren and Interlaken.
Jungfraubahn's chairman Walter Reinhardt told a news conference the company had applied for a listing of the shares on the Swiss Exchange from August 29.
The share capital of Jungfraubahn amounts to 11.67 million francs, divided into 583,500 shares and the public offering is lead managed by Bank J. Vontobel & Co. AG.
So far the shares of Jungfraubahn have been traded by telephone on Berne's regional exchange.
After the placement, 47 percent of Jungfraubahn's shares will be held by the public, 21 percent by Berner Cantonalbank, 25 percent by Spar + Leihkasse in Berne and 7.0 percent by the Bernese Kraftwerke (BKW) FMB holding company.
The shares on public offer, worth 33 million francs, came from Berner Cantonalbank and Spar + Leikasse.
Reinhardt said the shares were particularly suitable for investors interested in preserving their capital and receiving dividend income and the company was interested in a stable base of shareholders.
Jungfraubahn has a target payout ratio of 30 percent of net income and is paying a seven franc dividend on 1995 results.
Jungfraubahn made a group net profit of 2.7 million francs in the first six months, down from 4.8 million the year before.
The company, however, earns most of its money in the second half of the year and chief financial officer Daniel Hertig said the company was on target this year.
For the full 1996 year, Jungfraubahn expects to report a group profit of 13 million francs, down from 15.9 million, on sales of 88 million, down from 95 million. About five million of the lower turnover is due to the sales of a travel agency.
Rupert Murdoch's News Corp Ltd is expected to report on Thursday a stagnant net profit for the year to June 30, held back by soaring newsprint costs and losses from its burgeoning Star TV operations, analysts said.
The median forecast in BZW's BARCEPS broker survey is for a A$1.343 billion net profit before abnormals for the year, a virtual replica of the A$1.342 billion profit posted in 1994/95.
"It's got to be a reasonably strong last quarter to match that (1994/95) figure," said ABN AMRO Hoare Govett media analyst John Bell.
"I doubt there'll be many surprises on the upside," he said.
News posted a A$281 million net profit before abnormals in the third quarter, below expectations of about A$300 million and taking profits for the first nine months of the year to A$944 million.
Analysts said News' 1995/96 profits had been restrained generally by the higher paper costs, a U.K. cover price war and continued losses from its Star TV operation in Hong Kong.
"People will look at newspapers because that will reflect higher newsprint prices and the impact of the newspaper price war," said one Melbourne media analyst.
Margins on News' British newspapers were seen pressured in the final few months of the year by cover price discounts ahead of the Olympics.
"Margins may have slipped a little bit in the last few months of the year," he said.
Star TV was seen pumping out another US$90 million to US$100 million of losses for the year as it establishes itself in the potentially lucrative Asian satellite television markets.
"I would expect a full year loss of US$90 million given what we've been told so far and I've seen nothing to change that," the Melbourne analyst said.
Continued strong earnings from U.S. television and films are seen offsetting somewhat the newsprint and Star TV losses.
Looking ahead however, analysts are confident News' profits can start growing again in 1996/97, boosted by potentially lower newsprint prices and an earnings surge from the hit U.S. special effects movie, "Independence Day".
"The 1996/97 result will show some clear profit growth as much as anything because of paper prices and 'Independence Day'," the Melbourne analyst said, who forecast a A$1.6 billion net profit.
News' share price was down one cent at A$6.49 at 2.00 p.m. (0400 GMT).
The Agricultural Marketing Service of the U.S. Department of Agriculture said it bought 3,560,400 lbs of frozen beef for distribution in the National School Lunch Program and other Federal programs.
"To date, we've purchased approximately 45 million lbs of beef products at a cost of about $41 million since May 1 when we announced our accelerated beef purchase initiative," USDA Agriculture Secretary Dan Glickman said.
Glickman said other actions include offering nearly $40 million to help drought-stricken producers in the Southwest feed their livestock and expanded price discovery initiatives to assist all cattle producers in their marketing decisions.
On Tuesday, AMS bought 3,402,000 lbs of frozen beef for reprocessing at a cost of $.9624-$.9940 per lb and 158,400 lbs of beef in 1-lb chubs at a cost of $1.4015-1.4448 per lb.
Winning bidders for the fine frozen coarse ground beef for reprocessing included Aksarben Foods Inc (Omaha NE) 2,478,000 lbs, Fresno Meat Co (Fresno CA) 126,000 lbs, H&H Meat Products (Mercedes TX) 168,000 lbs, and Supreme Beef Processors Inc (Dallas TX) 630,000 lbs.
Winning bidder for the fine ground beef in 1-lb chubs was Supreme Beef Processors (Dallas TX) 158,400 lbs.
Following are some of the major events to have occurred on August 27 in history.
1576 - Titian, one of the greatest Venetian painters, died in Venice aged about 90.
1660 - The published books of poet John Milton were burned in London because of his attacks on King Charles II.
1770 - Georg Wilhelm Friedrich Hegel, German philosopher, born. One of the best known and most influential of idealist philosophers.
1813 - Napoleon defeated an allied force of Austrians, Russians and Prussians at the Battle of Dresden.
1828 - Uruguay formally became a sovereign nation under the Treaty of Rio de Janeiro which ended war between Brazil and Argentina.
1859 - The first commercially productive oil well drilled near Titusville, Pennsylvania by Edwin Drake of Seneca Oil.
1877 - Charles Stewart Rolls, British motor manufacturer and aviator, born. Teamed up with Henry Royce to form the famous car firm.
1878 - Baron Pyotr Nikolayevich Wrangel born. Russian general, leader of counter-revolutionary forces in Russia 1917-20.
1884 - Sam Goldwyn, U.S. film producer and pioneer in the film industry, born in Poland as Shmuel Gelbfisz (Goldfish).
1890 - Man Ray (Emmanuel Radinski) born. A painter and photographer, he and Marcel Duchamp founded Dadaism.
1899 - C.S. Forester, English novelist noted for the Horatio Hornblower novels, born.
1908 - Lyndon Baines Johnson, 36th U.S. president, born. He became president when John F. Kennedy was assassinated in November, 1963.
1910 - Mother Teresa of Calcutta born. Dedicated to the relief of poverty, she won the Nobel Peace Prize in 1979 for her work with the poor of India.
1916 - Romania declared war on Austria-Hungary and Italy declared war on Germany.
1919 - Louis Botha, South African Boer general, statesman and first prime minister of the Union in 1910, died aged 56.
1928 - The Kellogg-Briand pact was signed in Paris. The pact, named for U.S. Secretary of State Frank Kellogg and French Foreign Minister Aristide Briand, sought to outlaw war as an instrument of national policy.
1936 - Egypt and Britain signed a treaty providing for withdrawal of British forces except in the Suez Canal area.
1939 - The world's first jet-propelled aeroplane, the Heinkel 178, made its first flight at Marienehe, north Germany.
1946 - France and Laos concluded an agreement establishing a kingdom under French domination.
1962 - The U.S. spacecraft Mariner II was launched towards Venus.
1967 - Brian Epstein, who discovered and later managed the Beatles, was found dead aged 32.
1975 - Haile Selassie, the deposed emperor of Ethiopia, died in exile aged 83.
1979 - Louis Mountbatten, 1st Earl Mountbatten of Burma, was killed when a bomb planted by the Irish Republican Army destroyed his boat off Mullaghmore, County Sligo. He was 79.
1990 - The United States expelled 36 out of 55 embassy staff at Iraq's Washington embassy.
1991 - Moldova declared independence from the Soviet Union.
1992 - An international conference on former Yugoslavia ended in London with Bosnian Serb agreement to give up control of their heavy weapons.
1995 - Peace between Israel and the PLO moved a step forward when the two sides signed an agreement in Cairo giving Palestinians more administrative powers in the West Bank.
Russian troops cut a major escape route from Grozny on Tuesday, trapping thousands of civilians frantically trying to flee a threatened allout military bombardment from Thursday.
The troops apparently aimed to close the route to Chechen fighters holed up in the city. But they stranded civilians in a perilous area between rebel and Russian lines which has been shelled heavily in the last few days.
About 30 well-armed Interior Ministry soldiers with armoured personnel carriers (APCs) swept through the dusty village of Alkhan-Yurt on the southwest fringe of the Chechen capital.
They took up positions near a ramshackle bridge that was one of the few points of passage for thousands of refugees on Tuesday.
"They started shooting up the bridge with grenades when they got down there and everyone turned back," said one woman who managed to cross from the Grozny side just before the Russians moved in. Sporadic explosions could be heard from the vicinity.
Western journalists who visited the bridge in the early evening saw the bodies of two civilians on the Grozny side.
A Chechen rebel spokesman had accused troops of blowing up the crossing at 3.30 p.m. (1130 GMT), killing many civilians.
But at the bridge, a precarious structure of metal plates balanced on rusting steel tubes, there was no evidence of this later in the afternoon. Russian officials denied the charge.
The troops' arrival, however, halted the flow of refugees, many of them old folk who had hobbled for several kilometres (miles) from Grozny, which was seized by the rebels on August 6.
The soldiers, who were extremely agitated, searched refugees and forced men to lie on the ground. A number complained they were robbed of some of the few possesions they had been able to take along as they fled their homes.
"They shoved me onto the ground and ripped my gold ring off. Then they took my wallet with $300 in it," one man said.
One of the APCs trained its cannon on us.
"Out of the car!" screamed one of the blue-camouflaged soldiers, sticking his Kalashnikov assault rifle in my face.
"You damn journalists! Don't you have enough blacks in your own country? You've come here to defend these black arses we're trying to wipe out. I could kill you now if I wanted to," he told me, prodding my stomach with the barrel of the gun.
Russian troops use such racist terms for the dark-skinned peoples of the Caucasus, including Chechens.
Just a couple of metres (yards) from where we were standing, some of his comrades opened fire on an open field nearby. I could not possibly guess what they were aiming at.
The soldier, who reeked of alcohol, calmed down when offered a soft drink. "Now get the hell out of here," he grunted.
Unlike the first days of the exodus from Grozny, when most were young or middle-aged who found cars, buses, even donkey carts to cram into, a great number are now frail elderly people on foot who had waited until the last moment to get out.
Many in the chaotic crowd were driving cattle or bent over in exhaustion by the roadside under a blazing sun. Black smoke from fires burning in Grozny rose in the sky over their heads.
"I didn't want to leave home but everyone says they are going to bomb everything in the city," said a toothless old man with one leg whom we gave a lift to.
A plump old woman, tears streaming down her cheeks, confronted the soldiers. "Why do you want to kill us?" she said.
The sea of agonised faces was broken by a single crazed smile -- a mentally handicapped man being pushed through the dust in a wheelchair.
Year		     Amount    Coupon     Yield     Price  Conc.
A judge proposed that Montgomery County, Texas, issue $26 million of general obligation bonds to finance construction of court facilities and other projects, the Houston Chronicle reported Tuesday.
County Judge Alan Sadler told the newspaper the bond issue could attract $15.5 million in matching funds.
The issue would finance construction of a civic center, remodeling of the county courthouse, construction of a court annex in southern Montgomery county and road and park improvements.
Sadler said the debt probably would not require a tax rate increase if the tax base continues to grow by at least three percent annually as expected.
He told the newspaper the plan still needs fine-tuning, but that he hoped to win local government approval to put it before voters as early as January.
Palestinian President Yasser Arafat has asked Egyptian President Hosni Mubarak to mediate with Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu to halt Jewish settlements in the Palestinian occupied West Bank and Gaza.
"An explosion between the Palestinian landowners and the settlers has come very close as a result of the Israeli government policy supporting settlement," Arafat told Mubarak in a message this week, Palestinian officials said on Tuesday.
"I'm sure that your excellency will not spare any effort to get the peace process back to its correct track," he said.
Netanyahu's government this month cancelled a new settlement building freeze imposed by the previous government which made peace deals with the Palestinians.
Palestinians, who hope to eventually establish an independent state in the West Bank and Gaza Strip, regard the 130,000 Jews settled amidst the nearly two million Palestinians in the areas since Israel captured them in 1967 as an obstacle.
Under an interim peace deal, Israel handed parts of the West Bank and the Gaza Strip to Palestinian rule in 1994 and 1995. Final peace talks begun before Israel's May elections have yet to resume under Netanyahu.
Egypt, which was the first Arab state to make peace with Israel in 1979, has acted as a mediator in the Middle East peace process that started in Madrid in 1991.
PaineWebber Inc said Tuesday it repriced Maryland's $61.5 million Community Develoment Administration bond issue, lowering the 2016 maturity to 5.95 percent from six percent and adding a 2026 maturity.
PLEASE NOTE COUPON CHANGE ON THE FOLLOWING MATURITIES 1999 - 2001.
VERBAL AWARD RECEIVED.
THERE WILL BE NO NEW ORDERS.
ALL BONDS ARE PRICED AT PAR.
OFFICIAL STATEMENT.
ALL BONDS ARE PRICED AT PAR.
FOR ADDITIONAL INFORMATION REGARDING THE EXTRAORDINARY REDEMPTION PROVISIONS PLEASE REFER TO YOUR PRELIMINARY OFFICIAL STATEMENT.
The award is expected Wednesday, August 21, 1996.
Delivery is expected on September 5, 1996.
This issue is book entry through DTC.
Bear, Stearns & Co. Inc.
Ferris, Baker Watts Inc.
Legg Mason Wood Walker, Inc.
Artemis Capital Group, Inc.
January and February 1996 were the only months in the last year for which a greater value was recorded, SNZ said.
It included NZ$49.1 million for factories and industrial buildings, $45.1 million for shops, restaurants and taverns, $28.8 million for education buildings, $25.3 million for storage buildings, and $25.0 million for offices and administration buildings.
The national median consent value for new dwelling units authorised in June was NZ$115,000. This is an increase of 6.5 percent when compared with the year ago figure.
The total value of consents for residential buildings (new dwellings and outbuildings plus alterations and additions) in June was $274.2 million.
The total value of consents for the year ended June 1996 for all buildings was $5.81 billion, an increase of 5.2 percent on the year ended June 1995.
CenCor Inc said Tuesday it is offering to purchase its non-interest bearing notes due July 1, 1999, at a cash price equal to 74 percent of their principal amount.
CenCor said it is making the offer to allow noteholders to liquidate their notes and to receive cash at a price of $0.74 per $1 of principal, prior to July 1, 1999. The offer to purchase expires on October 3, 1996.
CenCor also reported the value of its net assets in liquidation as of June 30, 1996. CenCor's directors had adopted a liquidation plan which will be submitted for shareholder approval on September 12, 1996.
If CenCor had fully liquidated and distributed its assets by June 30, 1996, the company's shareholders would have received $17,982,000 in distributions or about $12.08 a share, as compared with $18,110,000 or $12.17 at December 31, 1995.
These factors include claims related to the sale of the assets of a former subsidiary, Century Acceptance Corp, unexpected income tax liabilities, and the amount collected on the debt and preferred stock of Concorde Career Colleges Inc.
The liquidation value may also be reduced by legal matters, including class action suits pending against Century in the State of Alabama.
The company said it recorded $1,357,000 in expenses from liquidating activities during the six months ended June 30, 1996. The company's expenses consist mainly of salaries and related benefits, interest on the company's long-term debt, professional and consulting fees, and other liquidating activities.
In addition, CenCor said it recorded an adjustment to net assets in liquidation of $120,000 for the six months ended June 30, 1996 as a result of its July 30, 1996 agreement to release its claim on certain assets to be sold by Concorde in consideration of Concorde's agreement to use a portion of the sales proceeds to redeem the preferred stock.
On August 2, 1996, CenCor received $352,495 from Concorde in exchange for the redemption of 30,975 shares of preferred stock.
- The number of domestic tourists in Slovenia fell by 17 percent in July, while the number of foreign visitors went up by 12 percent, the Slovenian Statistical Office said.
- A coal mine in Zagorje started closure procedures on Monday. The mine, which has been operating for 240 years, is considered unprofitable and is due to close in 1999.
- Employees of troubled machine producer Litostroj continued their strike for the 18th day on Monday. The strike was called over unpaid salaries.
- State secretary for privatisation Edo Pirkmajer said the government was considering prolonging the validity of privatisation vouchers until the end of the year due to the slow privatisation process. The current validity expires at the end of September.
- The unemployment rate fell to 13.3 percent in June from 13.7 percent in May, the Statistical Office said.
Police have accused an Indonesian Catholic priest of publicly showing hatred against President Suharto following last month's riots in Jakarta, a lawyer said on Tuesday.
Police were not immediately available for comment.
A spokesman for the Legal Aid Institute, Munir, told Reuters that Father Ignatius Sandyawan would appear before police for questioning later on Tuesday.
"Sandyawan has been accused of...publicly showing hatred against President Suharto, showing enmity against the authorities and harbouring criminals. He is not under arrest, but his arrest may come anytime," Munir said.
Officials have accused Sandyawan of sheltering three members of the leftist People's Democratic Party (PRD), including Budiman Sudjatmiko, its leader who is blamed for the July 27 riots in which four people died and scores of cars and buildings were set on fire.
Showing hatred against the president carries a maximum penalty of six years' imprisonment.
Sandyawan is the secretary of a team of volunteers trying to assist the victims of the July 27 riots, the worst violence in the city for more than two decades. He was not immediately available for comment.
The riots began after police stormed the headquarters of the Indonesian Democratic Party and evicted supporters of ousted party leader Megawati Sukarnoputri, the daughter of former founding president Sukarno.
The Kompas newspaper said on Tuesday that Sudjatmiko and two other PRD acitivists had come to Sandyawan for protection. The priest housed them in the home of his brother, Benny Sumardi.
Sumardi, who is also accused of harbouring criminals, and the activists were arrested last week.
Munir said authorities had accused 13 activists, including those from the PRD, of subversion in connection with the riots. Subversion is punishable by death.
An Indonesian court on Monday upheld the arrest of labour leader Muchtar Pakpahan on subversion charges.
Pakpahan, leader of the unrecognised Indonesian Labour Welfare Union, had appealed his arrest but a district court turned it down.
French aluminium and packaging group Pechiney may cut between 3,000 and 3,500 jobs by end 1998 under its cost reduction plan code-named Challenge, trade union sources said on Tuesday.
The plan, which is aimed at cutting costs by between 1.5 and three billion francs by 1998 should be announced next month.
But a company spokeswoman said it would be premature to quote a job reduction figure.
The company has already said there would be no layoffs in France. Pechiney will hold a board meeting on September 19 ahead of the release of its first half earnings.
Company offficials said Pechiney may also hold a meeting of its group committee the same day to fine tune its estimate of the cost savings the Challenge plan will generate.
Pechiney employs 37,000 people worldwide, of which 19,000 are in France.
Pechiney swung back to profit in 1995 but wants to raise profitability to the level of its best competitors in all businesses. It sees cost savings as a way to meet investment needs without furher raising debt.
In a June interview with French business weekly Investir Pechniney chairman Jean-Pierre Rodier said profit in 1996 would probably remain unchanged from the previous year because while macroeconomic factors looked good it was still unclear when this would help sales volume.
Pechiney had a net profit of 1.47 billion francs in 1995 but this included 730 million francs of capital gains linked to the sale of assets.
California stands to lose nearly $7 billion in funds over six years under federal welfare reform, according to a state report released Tuesday.
The sweeping welfare reform legislation, which President Clinton has indicated he would soon sign, repeals and amends several major public assistance programs and replaces certain of these programs with block grants.
The bulk of this loss in federal funds would result from the elimination of federal aid to certain non-citizens legally residing in California, the Legislative Analyst said.
In fiscal year 1996-1997, the net fiscal effect would be be a loss of $51 million in federal funds, the Legislative Analyst said.
In early August, the California State Association of Counties estimated that the state could lose at least $10.7 billion over the next seven year in federal aid under the welfare legislation.
Daredevil Frenchman Alain "Spiderman" Robert, famous for scaling tall buildings around the world, was arrested on Tuesday as he attempted to climb a 35-floor building in Rio de Janeiro, police said.
Robert had reached the fifth floor of the building in Rio's Barra da Tijuca beachfront neighbourhood when security guards stopped him, a police spokesman said.
O Globo television showed Robert slipping away from the guards when they led him out of the building, which is still under construction. He then made another bid to scale the towering structure.
Police finally arrived and arrested him. The Frenchman was charged with disturbing the peace and was to appear in court on Sept. 3. He could be jailed for two months if found guilty.
It was his second attempt at climbing a landmark building in Rio in the last three days. He successfully scaled a 38-floor building on Sunday in the city centre.
Robert, a father of three, began mountain climbing in the Alps 20 years ago and in 1994 decided to tackle man-made structures without any equipment, safety belts or ropes.
His exploits to date include New York's Brooklyn Bridge, San Francisco's Golden Gate Bridge, London's Canary Wharf and the Tour de Montparnasse in Paris.
Petronor, part of the Repsol group, said its refinery in Spain's Basque Country had closed on Monday as expected.
Workers called a strike, the sixth this year, from 1500 GMT Monday until 0400 GMT on Monday, August 26.
The plant takes about 12 hours to regain full production after a stoppage, the spokesman said. It should therefore  be back to full strength around 1600 GMT next Monday.
The refinery has a capacity of 230,000 barrels per day (bpd) but usually refines an average of 200,000 bpd.
It will compensate for some of the lost production -- perhaps around half -- by increasing output after the strike, the spokesman said.
Other refineries in the Repsol group have also contributed to covering Petronor's shortfall in past strikes.
-- Credit Lyonnais Securities said in a research report it has downgraded its rating for Brazilian auto parts firm Metal Leve to sell from hold.
-- Although Metal Leve's shares dropped some 24 percent since early July highs, following the firm's take-over by Mahle and Cofap, "we still do not see this company profitable before 1997," the bank said.
-- The bank said it is unclear if the firm will remain a "stand-alone business" or be merged with Mahle's Brazil operations.
-- "As the next two years will see a lot of consolidation in the auto parts industry and limited pricing power will hold down earnings, we remain neutral towards the industry," it added.
-- Metal Leve preferred was off slightly at 8.54 reais on the Sao Paulo Stock Exchange.
Power-hungry Turkey, facing energy shortages later this year, has pinned hopes on natural gas from Iran and development of its first nuclear power station on the southern coast for its long-term needs.
Recai Kutan, energy minister of the Islamist coalition government that struck a multi-billion dollar gas supply deal with Iran last week, said power generation from nuclear energy was inevitable despite environmentalist concerns.
"Nuclear power is a must for Turkey," he told a meeting of businessmen in the western city of Izmit.
"We cannot build big hydroenergy power plants every year. We must make use of our nuclear energy potential," he said in remarks carried by Anatolian news agency.
Prime Minister Necmettin Erbakan signed the $23-billion landmark deal with Iran to get gas via a pipeline to be built from the Iranian city of Tabriz to Ankara, beginning in 1999. Turkey is to buy a total of 190 billion cubic metres by 2022.
The deal sparked controvery as it came shortly after the United States, Turkey's NATO ally, issued a law to punish companies investing more than $40 million in energy projects in Iran and Libya.
The U.S. later said it had yet to see details of the agreement to see whether Turkey was liable under the new legislation -- designed, says Washington, to punish states that back terrorism.
Ankara said a last minute change was made in the agreement not to breach the U.S. ban by deleting reference to Turkey's involvement in the building of the pipeline's section through Iranian territory.
Turkey, which uses gas chiefly for domestic use, consumes nearly nine billion cubic metres of gas annually with imports mainly from Russia. The Iranian deal will supply an initial three billion cubic metres from 1999.
Turkey is expected to produce 93.1 billion kiloWatt-hours (kWh) of power this year, up eight percent from last year, against a projected consumption of 97.5 billion kWh.
Officials said the short-term supply shortfall would be met by imports from neighbouring countries.
Ugur Dogan, energy ministry under secretary, said Turkey would soon begin electricity purchases from Iran through an existing grid with its eastern neighbour.
"We will soon buy an initial 25 megaWatts (MW) of power from Iran through existing lines. Later in the year we will raise it to 100 MW," he told Reuters. The line's capacity will be raised to 720 MW, he said.
He said Turkey was also negotiating with Georgia and Bulgaria for power imports from end-1996 or early 1997.
Kutan said Turkey was seeking to revive a 30-year-old plan to build a nuclear power plant at Akkuyu on the Mediterranean coast. Previous governments shelved the plan after protests from residents, local politicians and environmental activists.
Officials said the government would later invite an international tender to build the plant, originally designed to have a power capacity of 1,000 MW to 1,400-MW and produce up to 10 billion kWh annually -- nearly 10 percent of Turkey's needs. Its total cost is estimated at $3 to $5 billion.
Turkey had been self-sufficient in electricity for years but lack of investments blamed on a stagnant build-operate-transfer (BOT) model, led to shortages.
The obstacles were aggravated by a constitutional court ruling in early 1990s that all government deals to be carried out by consortia involving foreign companies would have to be inspected by the Council of State.
The decision has delayed at least seven power projects which would produce about 1,000 MW and were worth around $2.6 billion, according to official figures.
The government later devised an alternate model to promote production via coal-fired plants, which supplied 36 percent of national output of 86.3 billion kWh in 1995.
Earlier this year the previous government allowed private industrial companies to produce their own power and sell any surplus to the state distributor TEDAS.
Such production accounted for 10 percent of the total national power output in 1995.
Undersecretary Dogan said the government planned to re-open four coal-fired power plants in western Turkey shut down in 1994 after environmentalists won court cases.
"We are having desulphurisation units built at chimneys to minimise air pollution at those four plants. We will open them as soon as possible," he said.
The following are lists of positive and negative earnings surprises compiled by First Call.  Earnings surprises and historical information are provided by First Call.
Company Name	 Period     EPS	EPS     Diff.
 Company Name	Period     EPS	EPS     Diff.
None Reported.
	   unavailable.
	   there is more than one estimate.
	   estimate is negative or zero.
	   estimate is negative or zero.
U.S. sugar prices would run at unfairly low levels -- in the range of 21 cents per lb -- under a proposed formula for setting the import quota, growers said Tuesday.
Yancy said the formula, which would allow up to 2.7 million short tons or 2.475 million tonnes, of imported sugar during fiscal 1997, would lower U.S. prices to about 21 cents per lb.
USDA officials told the International Sweetener Symposium, sponsored by the American Sugar Alliance, that the proposed formula would result in a more efficient and "transparent" decision-making process on sugar imports.
"I think that (opposition) is where the growers' interests would lie," Hastings told reporters at the symposium.
USDA analyst Stephen Hammond said there was no official estimate of likely U.S. prices as part of the proposal.
It would allocate 1.875 million tonnes, or 2,066,834 tons, of imports at the October 1 start of the fiscal year. In November, February and May, the department would assess likely supply and use of sugar and decide whether to allocate an additional 200,000 tonnes of imports or cancel 200,000 tonnes.
With U.S. use estimated at 10.225 million tons in fiscal 1997 and output of 7 million tons, 2.7 million tons of imports would result in end stocks of 1.4 million tons, a slight increase from 1996, and a stocks to use ratio of 14 percent.
USDA said it would accept comment on the proposal until August 30. A final decison on the fiscal 1997 tariff-rate quota was set for September 13.
Lawrence Deal, president of the American Sugarbeet Growers Association, said the USDA proposal was trying to make marketing and processing more orderly.
"I like the concept. I think it has merit to it," Deal said. He declined to speculate the result on prices.
Larry Walker, director of policy analysis for USDA's Farm Service Agency, said it was likely sugar imports would exceed 1.5 million tons per year through 2002. As a result, crop loans to farmers would operate on a nonrecourse basis.
Peru's total banking system liquidity rose 4.7 percent, or 1.310 billion soles, to 28.093 billion soles in July, the Central Reserve Bank said Tuesday.
Liquidity in the local sol currency rose 2.2 percent, or 211 million soles, to 9.487 billion soles in July, according to the bank's weekly report.
Foreign exchange liquidity rose 5.1 percent, or $388 million, to $7.563 billion in the same period.
Noble Drilling Corp said that its Carl Norberg rig will be down for 90 to 120 days due to damage sustained on August 13.
Noble said the 250-foot rig was damaged due to operations by third party personnel on baord the rig. One Noble employee suffered burn injuries, but has been released from the hospital.
The company did not comment on the cost of the rig's downtime or the amount of damage sustained.
Noble said it carries insurance against rig damage, subject to a $1 million retention, and insurance against injuries to its employees.
The rig is currently located in Venezuela and contracted to Lagoven S.A.
Hong Kong legislative councillor Christine Loh on Tuesday joined others in the pro-democracy camp in the colony who say they won't participate in a China-backed committee to choose a provisional legislature and chief executive.
Referring to both the 1997 "Selection Committee" and the provisional legislature, Loh said: "I don't want to sit on either body."
Loh, a prominent pro-democracy politician, was speaking to the Singapore Foreign Correspondents Association.
Loh was elected in Hong Kong as an independent rather than as a member of the Democratic Party, which has also said it will not participate in the selection committee.
China says that after it takes over Hong Kong at midnight on June 30, 1997 it will abolish the legislative council elected under British rule, replacing it with a provisional legislature ahead of an election expected later.
A Beijing-appointed Preparatory Committee will pick the 400 selection committee members. Critics question the committee's independence and object to the idea of a provisional legislature.
The selection committee is also supposed to choose a chief executive to replace Hong Kong's British governor.
But Loh said: "It seems to me that they have already decided, that is, China has already decided who this person will be."
China has said the selection process for the chief executive could be advanced from December to November, which suggested a candidate had been identified, Loh said.
She said the Chinese have said recently the person should be acceptable to Britain, which she doubted they would say if they had not already picked someone falling into that category.
Shipping magnate C.H. Tung is considered China's most likely choice, Loh said.
Loh, who plans to run when China holds elections for a new Hong Kong legislature, said she will proceed with plans to start a political party of her own.
"Political parties in Hong Kong right now are more like glorified pressure groups" than parties serious about taking power with a well-thought-out programme, Loh said.
She said her party would not simply advocate democracy, but take stands on such issues as the environment, women's rights and social justice.
Nichols Research Corp said on Tuesday it is offering one million shares of common stock at $29.25 per share.
The company said it is offering 968,700 shares and certain stockholders are offering 31,300 shares.
Swedish defence and technology group Celsius AB on Tuesday said profits in the second half of 1996 would be weaker than in the first six months when its profits more than doubled.
Celsius reported a lift in profit after financial itmes to 151 million crowns from 74 million crowns a year earlier.
"The improved profit is largely an effect of lower losses from CelsiusTech but also due to strong performance from FFV Aerotech and Celsius Investor," Celsius chief executive officer Ulle Lund said in a statement.
Celsius reported half year sales of 5.51 billion crowns against 5.59 billion crowns a year ago.
Orders rose by about three percent to 4.23 billion crowns.
Lund said defence unit Bofors increased its sales during the first half by 11 percent to 2.17 billion crowns and its orders rose by about 300 million to 1.4 billion crowns.
Bofors posted a loss after financial items of 251 million crowns but this included costs of 300 million crown reserved for restructuring that followed cuts throughout the company.
Its engineering unit Kockums, posting a dip in sales to 1.22 billion crowns from 1.35 billion, on Tuesday announced a restructing including cutting staff by 600 and concentrating all its military production at Karlskrona in southern Sweden.
CelsiusTech sales inched higher to 916 million crowns from 913 million crowns and its loss was 60 million crowns compared to 324 million a year earlier.
Aircraft maintenance supplier FFV Aerotech sales rose to 715 million from 690 million crowns.
Celsius Invest's sales climbed by about 17 percent or 100 million crowns to 682 million crowns.
These are the leading stories in the Belgrade press on Tuesday. Reuters has not verified these stories and does not vouch for their accuracy.
- Yugoslavia's Supreme Defence council positively assesses results achieved so far in implementation of Dayton agreement.
- The vessel Herceg Novi belonging to Jugooceanija from Kotor sinks off the coast of Singapore.
- Russian Ilyshin 76 crashes near Belgrade; breakdown of the plane's electric installations possible cause of accident according to  federal transport ministry.
- Yugoslav and Croatian expert groups for humanitarian issues and missing persons to meet in Zagreb on Tuesday.
- The Government submits a bill to parliament to lower social security contributions to 21.2 percent from 25.3 and income tax to 15 from 16 percent as of October 1.
- The dinar's eight-month stability is due mainly to restrictive monetary policy, increase of foreign remittances and foreign currency inflow of Central bank and gradual revival of production.
- July average wage is 656 dinars, which is nominally up 2.3 percent on the previous month, according to the Federal Statistical Office.
- First shipment of 480 dismantled Zastava cars to leave the Port of Bar for Egypt on Wednesday: shipment worth $634,000, says Director of Zastava Automobili dd.
- Agreeement on representation of parties in the media for the federal elections signed without representatives of main opposition parties.
- Upper House of the Yugoslav Parliament sets a second session on August 29 to discuss the federal government's report on the normalisation of relations with the IMF.
- The Yugoslav trade union federation asks federal government to examine economic consequences of the recent changes in imports of oil derivatives .
- Greece, Italy, Japan and Croatia interested in financing $300 million constructin of three hydroelectric power plants in eastern Hercegovina, says Jovo Maric director of Hydroelectric power plants on the river Trebisnjica.
- Croatian Deputy Foreign Minister Ivan Simonovic says signing of mutual recognition agreement between Croatia and Yugoslavia not expected before adequate formulas for outstanding issues found.
- Serbian government submits bill on suppression of gray economy.
- The tobacco industry Duvanska Industrija Vranje resumes cigarette production. U.S. firm Reynolds to provide some tax- stamp machines for stamps requred by law, in exchange for 100 tonnes of tobacco.
- There will be enough sugar for domestic needs this year and next, say experts; 270,000 tonnes of sugar expected from 72,000 hectares sown with sugar beet.
Italian imports of crude oil amounted to 30.2 million tonnes in the first six months of 1996 (equivalent to roughly 1.2 million barrels per day), up 4.1 percent from the same period in 1995, industry group Unione Petrolifera said in a statement.
Libya accounted for 31.9 percent of imports, Iran 16.2 percent, Saudi Arabia 15 percent, the former Soviet Union 11.9 percent and Egypt 6.7 percent.
Salomon Brothers Asset Management Inc said it launched the Asia Growth Fund.
The fund will have at least 65 percent in equities and related securities in Asian countries and will be managed by Giampaolo Guarnieri.
Salomon Asset Management, with manages $15 billion in assets, is a unit of Salomon Inc.
Malaysia will probably buy small parcels of corn totalling over 100,000 tonnes over the next month while the rest of the grain and meal trade in the region remained quiet, traders said on Tuesday.
Another trader said the Malaysians would want to lock in their late 1996, early 1997 supply of corn, but find the current price too high. "They're interested, but not at these prices," the trader said.
The price of U.S. corn in Southeast Asia for November/December shipment on a Panamax vessel was being quoted at about US$175 a tonne C&F, up about $5-$10 from the preceding week, Singapore-based traders said.
Indonesia has ample supplies of the staple because of heavy imports and the recent harvest in the key corn growing region of Lampung. Thailand is likewise well-covered until early next year, dealers said.
"People here are trying to avoid buying on nearby months because they find prices too high. The grain trade right now is absolutely quiet," a trader in a commodity trading company said.
"Buyers are standing aside and the focus of the market is still on the supply side," one U.S. trader said.
"There's just no tenders because everybody's put on a lot of coverage. Unless the prices come off, business will remain slack," one trader said.
Regional buyers want to see how the U.S. corn crop will develop while nervously watching the weather because of talk the late-planted crop may be vulnerable to an early frost.
"The crop is just so far behind average it's raising a lot of concern about its viability," one trader said.
One trader estimated the size of India's (November/October) crop at about 4.5-4.7 million tonnes, slightly higher than the 4.45 million tonnes in the preceding season.
Prices of Indian soymeal for November/December shipment were quoted at around $295 a tonne C&F, up about $10 from last week, mainly on brisk demand, dealers said.
"The Indian soyabean harvest should be good, unless a disaster intervenes. If the figures hold up, it should bring down the price from the current levels," one trader said.
Finance Minister Jose Antonio Ocampo was quoted on Tuesday as saying more than two-thirds of government spending in Colombia was absorbed by the country's military and judicial system.
"To give you an idea of how things stand, let it suffice to say that 70 percent of the (government"s) operating costs go to defence and justice," Ocampo said in an interview with Bogota's El Espectador newspaper.
He did not detail the costs, but said much of the military spending was associated with maintaining what he described as a "very expensive" pension system for the armed forces.
President Ernesto Samper proposed a "war tax" to Congress to help shore up the military in its fight against leftist guerrillas, drug lords and organised crime.
The tax, which Samper referred to as a "public security contribution" in a speech earlier this month, would involve a one-time levy of 0.5 percent against the liquid assets of anyone worth more than $88,000.
The government hoped to raise $500 million through the tax for military expenditures, including the purchase of helicopter gunships.
Ocampo did not refer to the tax in his interview with El Espectador. But he hinted the government was eyeing other possible formulas to increase private sector support of the armed forces.
"This matter shouldn't be handled exclusively by the government," he said. "We need to hold a public debate on the amount of money that is assigned to the armed forces."
Despite the high level of government spending, Ocampo said the military was poorly equipped to deal with guerrillas.
Armed Forces commander Adm. Holdan Delgado and Army chief Gen. Harold Bedoya said in interviews published over the weekend that Colombia's guerrilla war could be won militarily, despite what Western military experts described as mounting evidence to the contrary.
But Delgado said the military had 35 helicopters for operational troop lifts -- the same number the U.S. military uses to support a single brigade. And Bedoya complained the country "ought to have at least 360,000 soldiers, and it has less than a third of that."
Western military experts said the Colombia army, which is primarily foot-driven, has about 120,000 troops in its five divisions across the country. No more than 100,000 are in a forward combat capacity.
U.S. mortgage-backed securities were mixed on Tuesday afternoon after the Federal Reserve concluded its policy meeting with no announcement on interest rates.
Pass-throughs were unchanged to 2/32 higher in very light trading, traders said. Discount coupons lost their early gains -- about 3/32 -- while premiums generally held on.
Yields over Treasuries narrowed two to three basis points.
Late on Tuesday, GNMA 30-year 7.5 percent coupons were up 1/32 at 99-05/32, yielding 110 basis points over 10-year Treasuries.
Comparable FNMAs were up 1/32 at 99-08/32. And FHLMC 30-year 7.5 percent pass-throughs were unchanged at 99-10/32.
With the FOMC behind them, analysts said the August employment report, set for release September 6, becomes the market's next focus.
While only three of 29 economists polled on Tuesday said the Fed will raise rates next month, several experts said payrolls could sway their interest rate forecasts.
NOTE - Core activities shows the total operating profit of the tank storage, distribution and logistics businesses.
Denmark's second biggest banking group, Unidanmark A/S, on Tuesday posted better than expected first-half results but said it foresaw slowing profits growth for the rest of the year.
"A slightly lower rate of growth is anticipated in the Danish economy for 1996 compared with the previous year, although continuing an upward trend throughout the year," Unidanmark said in a statement accompanying its interim results.
"Operating profit in the second half of 1996 is projected to be lower than for the first half of the year," it said.
Unidanmark announced a 1.275 billion crown ($221.5 million) pre-tax profit for the first half of the year, boosted by improved earnings from net interest, fees and lending. It earned 1.077 billion in the same period last year.
Operating profit for January-June 1996 was 1.264 billion crowns against 1.158 billion a year ago and better than average analysts' forecasts of 1.172 billion crowns.
The bank attributed its advance to net interest and fee income of 4.430 billion crowns -- 2.6 percent up on the first half of 1995 -- lower losses and bad debt provisions, stable expenses and bigger extraordinary income.
Mortgage lending rose from first-half 1995 to end-June 1996 by nearly 30 percent to 158.8 million crowns, Unidanmark said. Bank lending rose 7.4 percent and it forecast sustained growth for both, along with deposits, in the rest of 1996.
It saw lower net interest income for full-year 1996 than for 1995 due to current low Danish interest rates. Securities and foreign exchange results are dependent on market trends and loan loss provisions remaining unchanged in the second half.
It expected costs for the whole year to be largely the same as last year, but said that reorganisation both at branch and head office levels should cut expenses in 1997 and 1998.
Unidanmark said activity in its mortgage credit unit, Unikredit, continued to rise sharply, its market share of gross new residential mortgage lending growning to around 15 percent and interim pre-tax profits rising to 36 million crowns from the same 1995 period's seven million crowns.
Unidanmark was the second of Denmark's top banks to announce its 1996 half-year result. On Monday, third biggest bank BG Bank posted a better than expected 821 million crown pre-tax profit, compared with the previous year's 738 million crowns.
Roosevelt & Cross, Inc. said it won $1.010 million of Sherburne-Earlville CSD, N.Y., school district bonds, 1996, with a net interest cost of 5.0784 percent.
COMMENTS - Singapore bunker prices on Tuesday came off from early afternoon high offers to settle unchanged from Monday. Buyers stood back from high offers forcing offers lower. Others covered their needs in South Korea and Colombo. Both independents and majors offered around $105 for 380 cst and at $109 for 180 cst. MDO was steady at $187-$197 and gas oil was at $203-$205. --Singapore Newsroom (65-870-3082).
Mexican stocks soared near the close of Tuesday's trading session, overtaking resistance at 3,400 points on their way to a new record close.
The IPC index of blue-chip stocks was up 77.12 points or 2.32 percent to 3,401.79 at the close of trade, although the final total had yet to calculated.
On Friday the bolsa index set a record close of 3,361.39 points.
The rouble fell to 3,578 to the German mark on the Moscow Interbank Currency Exchange from 3,535 on Monday.
Chilean Finance Minister Eduardo Aninat said the government's spending increase next year will be less than the economic growth rate, and vowed to place a high priority on social programs.
"There is an implicit commitment that this (lower government spending growth) will occur," Aninat told reporters after a meeting with President Frei to discuss the 1997 budget.
Analysts have forecast the central bank's credit-squeeze, which has been in force for nearly a year, will slow economic growth to around five percent in 1997 from over seven percent this year.
The finance ministry has asked the Chilean Copper Commission, a government studies center, and state copper producer Codelco to send three estimates of average copper prices next year, said Aninat.
The government must by law send the budget to Congress before the end of September.
Aninat said Monday's increase in kerosene and diesel prices would not pose a threat to the government's target of cutting inflation to 6.5 percent this year.
"We estimate (the threat) to be very minimal as the effect will be reflected in two months," said Aninat.
"Our preliminary estimates point to the impact on comsumer prices of less than 0.1 percent in cumulative terms."
The government jacked up kerosene prices 10 pesos a liter and diesel by five pesos as the result of a rise in international oil prices.
Ryerson Tull Inc unit Joseph T. Ryerson & Son Inc said it signed a three-year agreement with the United Steelworkers of America, covering 10 of Ryerson's plants.
The agreement covers 485 employees and replaces a prior agreement, which expired on July 31.
Ryerson Tull is 87 percent owned by Inland Steel Industries Inc.
Egyptian share prices leaped to a 17-month high on Tuesday on strong demand for milling shares and other popular recent issues.
Volume was a heavy 40.87 million pounds ($12 million), but much of that came from the registration of newly privatised shares in Nasr Match and Prefabricated Houses and Misr Oil and Soap, brokers said.
The Capital Market Authority (CMA) overall index rose 1.83 points to 233.55, its highest level since May 1995.
North Cairo Flour Mills led the way up on rumours that it would pay a dividend of at least 12.00 pounds for the financial year which ended on June 30, against 4.92 pounds for the previous year. The shares closed 5.75 pounds up at 95.25.
South Cairo Flour Mills and Central Egypt Flour Mills also rose, by 1.60 pounds to 40.85 and 0.50 to 24.50 respectively, the CMA said.
"These milling firms have a P/E ratio of five so they're undervalued even by the standards of the Cairo market," said broker Elwi Taimour of Financial Brokerage Group.
Commercial International Bank (CIB) climbed 4.00 pounds to 445.00 on good performance by its recently floated GDR and expectations that a 10-for-1 share split will encourage trading by making the shares more liquid, the brokers said.
A shareholders meeting on August 31 is expected to discuss the share split proposal, they added.
Paints and Chemical Industries/PACHIN, which will hold a shareholders meeting on Wednesday, rose on similar expectations of a share split, said Neveen El Tahry of Delta Stockbrokers. It closed 12.00 pounds higher at 790.00.
The CMA index for openly traded firms rose to 337.35 points from 330.04 points on Monday. The index for the rarely traded "closed" firms was unchanged at 160.08 points.
Advances outnumbered declines by 24 to 22.
Chechen rebel chief-of-staff Aslan Maskhadov appealed on Tuesday to Russian security supremo Alexander Lebed to prevent federal troops from using force to clear separatist fighters from the capital Grozny.
Russia's acting commander in Chechnya, General Konstantin Pulikovsky, vowed on Tuesday to use aircraft and heavy artillery to retake Grozny, much of which was seized by rebels on August 6.
But Lebed, who is locked in a power struggle with the interior ministry over the handling of the 20-month-old conflict, has advocated talks with the separatists and opposed aerial bombardment, which he believes could spread the fighting.
Maskhadov said the Chechen side reacted "very calmly" to Pulikovsky's warning to Grozny residents that they should abandon the city by Thursday or risk being caught up in an all-out Russian counter-offensive.
"Implementation of the threat by commander Pulikovsky will not bring glory to Russian weapons, but will only make the situation even worse, driving it into a dead end," Interfax quoted him as saying.
German construction group Philipp Holzmann AG said on Tuesday it aimed to achieve break-even point in 1996, saying that special earnings would offset an expected negative operating result.
The group said in a statement that it would dissolve some hidden reserves in order to compensate for a negative operating result, possible losses on property sales and write-offs associated with its restructuring of its portfolio.
Holzmann ran into huge financial problems in 1995, posting an unexpected loss of 443 million marks which forced it to omit its dividend payout. At the root of its problems were 458 million marks of write-downs on its property portfolio.
Its shares fell sharply on that news, hurt additionally by the unexpected resignation of the company's finance director Michael Westphal on old age grounds.
The stock ended at 375 marks today, down from a year high of 685 notched up in February.
Today's forecasts for the full year represent a further worsening of its position. The company said in May it would make every effort to post a positive reult for 1996.
Holzmann said orders in hand rose to 15.6 billion marks at mid-year from 13.5 billion at the end of 1995. New business rose by 11 percent in the period, it said.
- Paribas Capital Markets said it initiated coverage of Argentine utilities Central Puerto and Central Costanera with "sell" recomendations.
MADRID, Aug 20 (Reuter) 1510 GMT - Madrid stocks managed to increase a slight gain at the close on Tuesday although trade was thin as the market kept a wary eye on the U.S. Fed's open market committee.
Food retailer Pryca saw a sharp rise of 80 pesetas to 3,025 in busy trade amid talk that first half results, due to be announced in September, will be particularly healthy dealers said.
Except for selected stocks trade was dull, with the extreme price swings characteristic of thin volume.
The tone is expected to remain similar at least until after the UK bank holiday on August 26, dealers said.
Turnover totalled around 21 billion pesetas.
Shares in French tyre firm Michelin gained nearly two percent on the Bourse on Tuesday after the influential U.S. J.D. Power market research firm said Michelin and Pirelli had the best client satisfaction ratings.
J.D. Power & Associates polled 15,347 Americans with a car or pick-up truck bought in 1995.
Dealers said the positive news was boosting the share in a thin market.
"The market does not have a lot to chew on. But it is good to see that Michelin's policy of basing its development on technological advances is well received," an analyst said.
BRASILIA, Aug 20 (reuter) - Chrysler Corp said on Tuesday it would invest $315 million to build a factory in Brazil to produce its new Dodge Dakota pickup truck.
Chrysler said in a statement issued in Brasilia that the factory should be finished in mid-1998 and will have an initial capacity to produce 12,000 vehicles per year, with an eventual production potential of 40,000 per year.
The location of the factory has not yet been decided, it added.
China should take advantage of easing inflation and switch its fund raising efforts to longer term bonds, an official newspaper said on Tuesday.
The Financial News, published by the central bank, said that the reduced interest rates meant that Beijing could lock in long-term funds at cheaper rates.
"Now that we are in a period of lower inflation, this is the time to shift to longer term maturities for government funds," the newspaper said.
China's retail price inflation rate slipped to 6.9 percent for the first seven months of the year, well below a target of 10 percent for the year and down sharply from the 14.8 percent for all of 1995.
That persuaded the central bank to cut bank interest rates once this year, and many analysts expect another rate reduction by the end of the year.
China also felt confident enough to eliminate a hefty subsidy on new bank deposits and government debt of more than three years as of April.
The subsidy, paid on top of the normal interest rate, was aimed at attracting investors during a period of high inflation.
The subsidy hit a peak of 13.24 percent in December of last year, paid in addition to interest of 12.24 for three-year bank deposits.
In 1995, China issued 151 billion yuan ($18.18 billion) in domestic treasury debt, representing 2.6 pct of its gross domestic product, according to the daily.
"The government had to raise interest rates on bonds and to give a subsidy on top of this. As a result, this increased the the cost of raising funds and the burden of repayment," the newspaper said.
In July, Beijing issued its first tranche of 10-year bonds. They paid annual interest of 11.83 percent but with no subsidy, making them a far cheaper way for the central government to raise funds.
"The advantage to the state is that it is simpler to manage," said Xu Hongyuan, an economist at the State Information Centre.
"From the investor's standpoint, the bonds are also quite attractive," he told Reuters.
The newspaper said in addition that China also had too much of its debt concentrated in three to five-year maturities, bunching up repayments and straining government finances unnecessarily.
"If we can rely on a certain amount of 10-year treasury bonds that will ease the problems," the newspaper said.
A group led by Caxton International Ltd said Tuesday it cut its stake in Rigel Energy Corp to 3,947,491 common shares or 7.05 percent from 8.95 percent previously.
In a filing with the Securities and Exchange Commission, the group said it sold one million common shares on August 15 at CN$12.30 per share.
Energy invest firm Enersis SA said it renegotiated the repayment terms of a $50 million syndicated loan it signed with creditor banks last year.
Under the renegotiated terms, the interest rate to be paid by Enersis will be 0.37 percent above Libor, or about half that originally negotiated, it said.
The five-year loan with 23 Asian, European and North American banks was signed in August last year. The five-year repayment program will stay in effect, meaning the credit will come due in August 2001 instead of 2000 as originally signed.
The largest participant in the loan was Chemical Bank, which loaned $8 million, said an Enersis statement.
Naphtha prices rose a touch on Tuesday on the heels of gains in crude oil on the overnight market, traders said.
First-half October open-spec naphtha was assessed bid at $196.50 and offered at $197.50, while second-half October was assessed bid and offered about one dollar lower.
At least two naphtha deals were confirmed done overnight. A first-half October was traded at $196, while a first-half November exchanged hands at $193.50.
The market was likely to absorb the roughly 4.0 million barrels of LSWR that Indonesia is believed to have allocated in August, although some of the barrels might be shifted for loading in September, traders said.
Indonesia is expected to announce its LSWR allocation for September later this week.
Taiwan's state-owned Chinese Petroleum Corp (CPC) has issued a tender to sell 225,000 to 250,000 barrels of 0.3 percent sulphur diesel for September 23-30 lifting. The tender closes on August 26.
A Roman Catholic church newspaper alleged on Tuesday that the "highest circles of power" in Mexico were behind the 1994 murder of ruling party presidential candidate Luis Donaldo Colosio.
The bimonthly newspaper Nuevo Criterio, an official publication of the Archdiocese of Mexico, said in an unusually outspoken editorial that the Colosio slaying was clearly a plot and not the work of a lone gunman.
"The resources used to carry out the crime, but especially the way it was handled afterwards, make it clear that ... the mastermind was in the highest circles of power," it said.
It added, without directly accusing Mexico's former president: "There is much evidence of the violent and vengeful way in which ex-president (Carlos) Salinas de Gortari resolved his difficulties with other people."
Salinas denied any involvement in the killing. Authorities last year said he was not being investigated in relation to the crime but might be called to testify.
Salinas left Mexico in disgrace last year following the arrest of his brother on murder charges and lives in Ireland.
The newspaper alleged the March 23, 1994 slaying of Colosio -- Salinas' hand-picked successor, who had been widely expected to win August 1994 presidential elections -- was the work of "someone who had more than enough reasons to get rid of an uncomfortable and independent candidate."
The Roman Catholic church in Mexico is not generally known for such pronouncements on public affairs.
Many Mexicans sazid they believe Salinas was involved in the Colosio slaying, the most serious political assassination in Mexico in half a century, because Colosio was not obeying instructions from the man who gave him the candidacy.
But sceptics pointed out that the killing undermined Salinas' presidency, caused massive capital outflows and damaged his international image, making his involvement unlikely.
The newspaper praised Attorney General Antonio Lozano of the opposition National Action Party, sectors of which have ties to the church, for his efforts to solve the crime.
An alleged second gunman in the case was acquitted last week for lack of evidence, leaving just one man -- Mario Aburto Martinez -- in prison for the killing.
In a telephone conversation from prison with his father, broadcast on Tuesday by radio station Radio Red, Aburto said he feared for his life and accused authorities of torture to make him confess to shooting Colosio.
"They want to make people think I am mad and that I killed myself," Aburto told his father, who lives in Los Angeles.
There was no immediate official comment on his charges.
Argentine Agriculture Secretary Felipe Sola has indefinitely postponed a news conference scheduled for Tuesday afternoon to express annoyance at delays in getting U.S. beef import approval, his office said.
A Secretariat official, who did not want to be named, said the Argentine government was now carrying out talks on the matter and did not want to make declarations for the moment.
Sola called the conference last week after a U.S. Department of Agriculture official said it will take until at least March for the finalization of a rule effectively approving the Argentine imports as free of foot-and-mouth disease. The official said there would also likely be a delay between publication of the rule and its implementation.
The news caused an angry reaction from Argentine beef producers. The United States has granted Argentina an annual quota of 20,000 tonnes of beef.
IPE Brent crude closed lower on Tuesday in a partial retracement of recent sharp gains and under pressure from the expiring Sept NYMEX crude contract, dealers said.
Oct Brent closed down 42 cents at the session low of $20.54 a barrel posted in the last few minutes of trading.
The expiring Sept NYMEX crude contract shed 46 cents to end at $22.80 a barrel, trimming by nine cents the backwardation which has helped underpin Brent crude in recent weeks.
Traders said expectations of a build in U.S. inventories when the American Petroleum Institute (API) reports later on Tuesday were adding to the pressure on crude and products.
Low stocks, particularly of heating oil, have helped fuel the recent rally across the complex.
Traders and analysts surveyed by Reuters expected middle distillate stocks -- mainly heating oil and diesel -- to have risen by just over one million barrels last week.
Earlier, prompt IPE gas oil futures closed narrowly lower after a quiet session with most activity concentrated on the Sep/Oct spread, dealers said.
September gas oil settled at $188.25 a tonne, down 25 cents but towards the middle of the session's range of $186.50-$189.00 a tonne.
The prompt intermonth spread shed 75 cents a tonne to stand at $1.25.
Shipping and tank storage firm Koninklijke van Ommeren NV said on Tuesday it had bought a 50 percent stake in Spanish tank storage firm Terquimsa.
"This investment will positively affect our net profit in 1996," Van Ommeren said in a statement. No financial details of the transaction were given.
Terquimsa SA operates a terminal in the Spanish port of Tarragona with total capacity of 128,000 cubic metres for the storage of chemicals, mineral oil products and animal and vegetable oils and fats.
Van Ommeren said Terquimsa plans to expand its capacity and will closely cooperate with Van Ommeren's Barcelona tank terminal which has storage capacity of 34,000 cubic metres.
Van Ommeren said it planned to invest a total of 190 million guilders this year.
This was the balance of major investment programmes in tank storage in Asia and Europe, start up costs of a terminal project in Zhuhai in China and the sale of some older tankers.
NOTE - Full name of second largest Danish banking group is Unidanmark A/S. It said in a statement that it expected a lower H2 pre-tax & extraordinary items profit than in H1 1996. The result was above analyst expectations.
Canada's merchandise trade surplus narrowed in June to C$3.14 billion from a revised record C$3.95 billion in May, Statistics Canada said on Tuesday.
A Reuters survey of economists had forecast a surplus of C$3.6 billion in June. The survey also forecast imports of C$18.9 billion and exports of C$22.4 billion in June.
Exports to the United States, Canada's largest trading partner, fell to C$18.26 billion in June from C$18.52 billion in May. Imports from the United States rose to C$14.49 billion in June from C$14.07 billion in May.
Statistics Canada said total exports declined 1.8 percent in June, while imports rose 2.3 percent. The decline in exports was due to lower sales of automotive and energy products while the rise in imports came from machinery purchases. Imports increased from the United States, Japan and Europe.
Trade was active Tuesday morning, quiet afternoon, USDA said. Slaughter steers and heifers were $2.00 higher than last Friday. Inquiry and demand good. Sales confirmed on 28,900 slaughter steers and 21,900 slaughter heifers Tuesday.
For the week to date, 88,200 head confirmed including 7,300 head or about eight percent previously contracted or formulated cattle.
Sales FOB feedlot net weights after 4 percent shrink.
Commercial to Choice 1150 lb heifers aand heiferettes 67.00.
Genetic tests on five British schoolboys showed none of them raped classmate Caroline Dickinson, French investigators said on Tuesday.
The DNA tests were carried out in Britain and the samples sent over to France for analysis.
Dickinson was killed while sleeping with girl roommates at a youth hostel in the town of Pleine-Fougeres, Brittany.
The five boys were the only males staying at the hostel at the time of the murder who had not been given DNA tests in France because parental consent was needed.
French police have taken their inquiry to Britain after releasing the main suspect, a homeless Frenchman, arrested soon after the murder. DNA tests showed he could not have been Dickinson's rapist and killer.
NOTE - Listed on August 5, 1996.
Denmark's second biggest banking group, Unidanmark A/S, on Tuesday said that first-half 1996 pre-tax profits rose 18.4 percent to 1.275 billion crowns ($221.4 million) from 1.077 billion in the same period last year.
A statement said that the result, above analysts' expectations, benefited from improved earnings on net interest, fees and lending but said it saw a slowdown in economic growth squeezing profits for the rest of the year.
"Operating profit in the second half of 1996 is projected to be lower than for the first half of the year," it said.
Operating profit was 1.264 billion crowns against 1.158 billion last year, better than forecasts of 1.172 billion.
Unidanmark said that interest and fee income was 2.6 percent up on the first six months of 1995 at 4.430 billion crowns and mortgage lending rose 30 percent to 158.8 million crowns.
It said that bank lending was 7.4 percent up and forecast sustained growth for both, and for deposits, in the second half.
The stock market was unmoved by the Unidanmark result, with the share trading at 270 crowns at 1220 GMT, unchanged from Monday's close but two crowns lower than before the result.
The doctor treating a British woman pregnant with eight foetuses said on Tuesday he had given up trying to persuade her to have a partial abortion in order to give one or two of them a better chance of survival.
Consultant gynaecologist Kypros Nicolaides said his patient Mandy Allwood would now probably miscarry. "But I cannot abandon all hope that we will have at least some survivors," he added.
Allwood, who has sold her story to the News of the World Sunday newspaper, has said she is determined to have all the babies. She has been backed by her boyfriend Paul Hudson.
Nicolaides had told Allwood, who is now 15 weeks pregnant, that her that her best chance of having some healthy babies would be to abort most of the foetuses by a process known as foetal reduction.
But he told Sky television: "The issue of foetal reduction is now resolved. Mandy and Paul have decided to continue the whole pregnancy. I respect that view."
"The most likely outcome of this pregnancy is an expiry before 24 weeks or deliveries after 24 weeks with a high chance that all the babies will die, or if they survive there is a high chance that they will all be handicapped," he said.
Nicolaides examined Allwood on Saturday and found both her and her eight foetuses "very well". She was very confident about the pregnancy, but he said he had tried to make her realise that her chances of having healthy children were slim.
Australian Treasurer Peter Costello said on Tuesday the government would review how to contribute money to employee's retirement savings (superannuation) but did not need to cut the money to achieve his fiscal plans.
But the government was not convinced that the programme as currently planned -- a public contibution equal to three percent of each employee's earnings -- was the best way to pay it.
An announcement would be made later in the year.
The 1996/97 budget papers, issued on Tuesday, show the programme costing A$1.1 billion in 1998/99 and A$2.4 billion in the following year.
Carrying the burden of those payments, the budget is expected to move into underlying surplus -- that is, without asset sales -- in 1998/99.
China's Gross Domestic Product (GDP) was forecast to rise by around 10 percent year-on-year in the third quarter of 1996, the Securities Daily said on Tuesday.
Retail price inflation in the third quarter was expected to be controlled at around 7.5 percent, the newspaper quoted the State Planning Commission as saying.
China did not release quarterly figures last year but monthly retail inflation ranged from 14.6 percent in July, 1995, to 11.4 percent in September, 1995.
Consumer price inflation in the third quarter was forecast to rise by 9.6 percent compared with the year-ago period, the commission said.
Exports in the third quarter were expected to total $37.2 billion, while imports were seen at $34.08 billion, it said.
Note: The issuers are Southern Petrochemical Industries Corporation (SPIC), SCICI (SCICI Ltd), SBI European Bank (SBI) and Industrial Development Bank of India (IDBI).
The prices are compiled from ISMA closing prices.
The following are some of the top headlines in leading Italian newspapers.
*Trade unions say they are not going to strike against secessionist Northern league party leader Umberto Bossi, as communist leader Fausto Bertinotti had suggested yesterday (all).
*Umberto Bossi says his party is ready to vote in favour of STET privatization if Prime Minister Romano Prodi goes to Mantova, capoital of the proposed independent Republic of Padania (all).
*The Democratic party of the Left (Pds) says there is still room for an agreement with Bertinotti over STET, but "we can't go on like this anymore" protest some party members such as Gavino Angius (all).
*Minister for Public Employment Franco Bassanini wants to stop double employment in the public sector. He is ready to send his inspectors to check how many people have more than one job and how much they earn (Corriere, Stampa, Repubblica, Unita').
*Certificates of deposit will be tax-exempt for non residents (Sole 24 Ore).
* The crisis of the car market is getting worse: for the first time there are signs that a lower number of cars are circulating in Italy (Sole 24 ore).
Reuter has not verified these stories and cannot vouch for their accuracy.
NOTE: Full name of company is Scientific Software-Intercomp Inc.
NOTE - Daiwa Heavy Industry Co Ltd is an independent cast manufacturer.
Austrian oil and chemicals group OMV said on Tuesday it would continue to reduce its cost base over the next few years and aimed to cut its workforce by around four percent annually.
OMV employed 8,663 staff on June 30, down from 10,028 at the same time last year.
"We have managed to cut our workforce by around 14 percent over the past year. The bulk is behind us but we will continue with the rationalisation," director Walter Hatak told a news conference.
"We aim to shed five percent of (existing) staff annually while replacing one percent," he added.
Halifax Building Society, which plans a 10 billion stg London stock market float next June to become a bank, said on Tuesday it hoped to make an announcement soon about the organisation of dealings in its new shares.
The society's flotation is expected to bring the biggest- ever single boost to share ownership in Britain as the society said around nine million investors are on its share register.
Jon Foulds, chairman of the society, told reporters at its interim results briefing that Halifax expected several hundreds of thousands of shares to change hands on the first day of trading in its shares, likely to be in June 1997.
It was important to create the right structure for an "orderly market" in the shares, Foulds added.
"We will be making an announcement in the not too distant future about share dealing arrangements," chief executive Mike Blackburn told reporters, when asked for further details of its plans to try to manage the anticipated market rush.
Halifax's owner-members -- its savers and borrowers -- are due to vote on the plans for flotation in February 1997.
Afghan Prime Minister Gulbuddin Hekmatyar's cabinet has decided to remove communists with a criminal record from important government posts, a spokesman for the prime minister said on Tuesday.
The spokesman, Qaribur Rehman Saeed, told reporters the decision, taken by a cabinet meeting on Monday, would be implemented after approval by President Burhanuddin Rabbani.
The first Islamic government set up by mujahideen guerrillas in April 1992 after the collapse of a communist government had announced a general amnesty for all civil and military employees of the previous regime.
Some important officials of the former government say they had links with the mujahideen groups and helped them in the fall of the communist government of then president Najibullah, who was backed by the former Soviet Union.
"There is anti-government propaganda going on in the offices by the communists who disobey the orders," Saeed said.
"The general amnesty by the first mujahideen government is enough for them (communists). There is security for them in Kabul, that is enough."
He did not specify the officers to be dismissed.
At present, some of the military detachments in Kabul as well as several intellegence networks are run by military officers who held high positions in the communist government, against which the mujahideen groups fought for 14 years.
"If we want to have a sound government the decisions should be implemented without any exception in order to prevent, to some extent, the current difficulties," Saeed said. "Otherwise it will be pitiable."
Hekmatyar, a former rival to Rabbani, took office as prime minister for the second time in late June after a peace pact between the two men.
Following are the main stories in Croatian newspapers on Tuesday.
- Judging by the current state of affairs we (Croatia and Yugoslavia) will be signing an agreement on mutual recognition on Friday, claims foreign minister Mate Granic.
- Bosnian diplomat Mirsad Catic apprehended by Croatian authorities, based on an arrest warrant issued by the Zadar and Knin police authorities in 1991.
- The price of bread has to go down, said at a regular government press conference, agriculture minister Matej Jankovic.
- The Croat-Yugoslav agreement has not been initialed, said the deputy foreign minister, Ivan Simonovic during a break in Croat-Yugoslav talks held on Monday in Belgrade.
- First post-war Croatia airlines flight to Sarajevo cancelled on Monday due to inclement weather.
- The cost of living of a Zagreb family for August down by nealy 100 kuna compared to July due to lower prices of food stuffs.
- The production of oil at the Djeletovci oilfield in Eastern Slavonia to restart on Thursday, announced the INA oil company.
*Adjusted for 3-for-2 stock split effective 5-1-95.
The Russian Security Council said on Tuesday that it doubted the authenticity of President Bolris Yeltsin's latest orders on Chechnya.
"The contents of the documents gives solid ground to doubt that the president of Russia took a direct part in finalising the text of the order," said a statement by the policy-making Security Council, of which new security chief Alexander Lebed is the secretary.
Yeltsin on Sunday ordered Lebed, whom he had put in charge of handling the 20-monthold conflict in Chechnya, to regain Russian control over the capital Grozny from rebels who seized large parts of it on August 6.
The Security Council statement said an attempt to carry out this order would ruin peace efforts undertaken by Lebed and wreck a ceasefire deal he agreed with the separatist leaders.
The statement said Yeltsin's orders were issued with a facsimile of the president's signature rather than signed by the president in person. It has also said Lebed was not aware of the preparation of the orders -- which violated normal rules.
The Russian military commander in the Chechen capital Grozny on Monday gave the rebels 48 hours to leave the city or face an all-out bombardment.
The range of the bids was between 6.160 and 6.176 percent.
The coupon rate on the bonds was set at 7.10 percent. Total demand was T$113.15 billion, the official said.
FBS Investment Services said it won $1 million of Devils Lake, N.D., general obligation refunding improvement bonds of 1996, Series B, with a net interest cost of 4.448 percent.
NOTE - Japan Wavelock Co Ltd is a chemical firm.
Swedish defence and technology group Celsius's Kockums unit said on Tuesday it would call a news conference to announce a major restructuring of the division.
Kockums said in a statement the news conference would be held at 1430 GMT in Malmo. No further details were given, and Kockums declined to comment by telephone.
Parent company Celsius is due to release its results for the first half at around 1400 GMT.
Bids for surplus U.S. zinc ranged from $0.4470 per pound to $0.4839 per pound at a bid opening Tuesday, the U.S. Defense National Stockpile Center said.
Nine firms bid to buy a total of 11.254 million pounds of zinc for an average $0.4757 per pound, the agency said.
Trademet Inc of Savanna, Illinois, made the high bid of $0.4839 per pound for 880,000 pounds of zinc.
Fixed-income managers grew more bullish on U.S. debt markets in the past week, according to the latest MCM MoneyWatch Inc asset allocation survey.
"Investors (are) still finding the need to be invested," said MCM money market analyst Peter McTeague. "Some reached for yield in corporate paper, while others moved out the curve into the five- to ten-year (sector)."
A duration reading above 100 percent indicates the group of investors polled is mostly long on the market. A portfolio's duration represents its average maturity and is used by portfolio managers to calculate exposure to risk.
In the "next likely move" category, portfolio managers representing 24 percent of total assets in the survey said they would "buy," down from 37 percent the prior week.
Strategists leaning toward "sell" declined to nine percent, down from 10 percent in the week ended August 5.
Cash as a percentage of assets fell to 3.02 percent, against 3.05 percent registered the previous week.
The survey showed 39 percent of investors polled overweighted the 10-plus years duration sector, up from 34 percent in the previous week, while 36 percent underweighted it. The remaining 25 percent were "neutral."
In the five- to 10-year duration sector, 39 percent of investors polled said they overweighted the securities and 26 percent underweighted them.
* Table provided by MCM MoneyWatch Inc consultants.
Results are dollar-weighted.
The government's bumbling performance has left Beehive watchers scratching their heads over what master plan its celebrated strategists are following in the run-up to the election.
And its failure to ram home the political pluses in the sale of Forestcorp has compounded the appearance of a government running out of steam.
There may be another public backlash over the price at which Forestcorp is sold - largely because expectations have been built that it would go for around $2 billion, ignoring the $500 million or so of debt the SOE is carrying.
Even so, an announcement naming the successful bidders for the huge Bay of Plenty forest cutting rights is due after it goes to the government caucus tomorrow.  The latest opinion poll, admittedly from the relatively small sample of 500 voters, confirms a slump in support for the government.
National has dropped five percentage points to 37 percentin the last fortnight. That is a much sharper decline than had been expected, even by those realistic enough to believe  that the lead it had been enjoying for most of the year would begin to shrink as polling day approached.
NZ First has dropped four points to 17 percent, while Labour has regained its slot as the main opposition party with a one-point rise to 20 percent support.
The Alliance which has been campaigning vigorously against the sale of Forestcorp has risen five percentage points to 14 percent.
Even though the party still has not reached the 5 percent threshold, the rise in support for the Christians in this poll parallels the upward movement recorded to other major poll conducted for the rival television channel.
With only 40 working days left to the election, it may take something spectacular to revive the government's hopes of a clear-cut election result.
It's too far fetched to suggest, as some Beehive-watchers have done in recent days, that the master plan envisages an election outcome that makes governing by any conceivable grouping virtually impossible - thus forcing a second election some time in 1997, at a time when the majority of Kiwis will be so appalled at the lack o a helmsman at the wheel they will turn back in overwhelming numbers to the safest pair of hands.
The gains in employment, with the steady shrinking in the dole queues, have been virtually submerged in the backwash.
And the tax cuts do not appear to have influenced swinging voters, to any significant degree.
Still, Education Minister Wyat Creech could point to a good outcome from the protracted negotiations over a pay rise for secondary school teachers.
A further cut in official interest rates in Australia could produce cheaper money in New Zealand, too, and that could provide a boost for the local sharemarket, re-igniting greater confidence that the economy is moving in the right direction. But it is evident that the government has a real fight on its hands to come out on top on October 12.
Perilya Mines NL said on Tuesday it was confident it would add at least another two years of production to the reserve inventory of its Fortnum gold mine in Western Australia by December 1996.
Perilya in late July said it had hit broad widths of high-grade gold mineralisation in a new area at its wholly-owned Fortnum mine in the Murchison district of Western Australia.
Gold production at Fortnum totaled 68,018 ounces in 1995/96, up 49 percent from the previous year.
At 11:41 a.m. (0141 GMT), Perilya's shares were trading three cents higher at A$0.81 a share.
Osuuspankkien Keskuspankki Oy.
Shares of CapStar Hotel Inc were one the most heavily traded stocks on the New York Stock Exchange on Tuesday, the first day of trading after the company's $166.5 million initial public offering.
Shares were flat at 18 in afternoon trading.
The hotel company offered 9.25 million shares which priced at $18 each. The shares had been estimated to price in a range of $17 to $20. CapStar manages 31 hotels, owns 12 upscale full-service hotels, and has agreements to buy five additional hotels. Lehman was the lead underwriter of the deal.
Atria Communities Inc rose 5/8 to 10-5/8. The company, which operates assisted living centers for the elderly, offered five million shares at $10 each, below their estimated pricing range or $13 to $15 each.
The Mexican peso closed stronger on Tuesday as foreign investors came into Mexico to buy pesos and invest in the surging stock market, dealers said.
The benchmark 48-hour or spot peso gained 0.7 of a centavo to 7.4670/7.4720 while the 24-hour peso picked up 1.0 centavo to 7.4610/7.4660.
Earlier Tuesday, the same-day peso closed 0.05 of a centavo weaker at 7.4725/7.4775.
Mexico's stock index set a record intraday high of 3,388.82 on Tuesday, but has since cooled off a bit.
Traders predicted the peso would remain in the 7.40s at least through Wednesday.
Mafia boss John Gotti, serving a life sentence for murder and racketeering, was beaten up in jail last month by a fellow prisoner, the New York Daily News reported Tuesday.
The newspaper quoted unidentified federal law enforcement officials as saying the fistfight at the high-security prison in Marion, Illinois, was a racial dispute with a black prisoner. Gotti reportedly told doctors he "fell down," the newspaper said.
"It was a racial thing -- John mouthed off to a big black guy," the Daily News quoted one official as saying. "The next day, the black clocked him. He beat him up pretty bad, his face was all bloody. He needed some kind of medical help."
The extent of Gotti's injuries was not known but the Mafia boss was taken to the prison infirmary for treatment after the incident in the facility's indoor recreation area.
Gotti's lawyer Bruce Cutler denied that his client, once known as the "Dapper Don" for his flamboyant sartorial style, had been beaten in jail, and a spokesman at the Marion prison declined to comment, the newspaper said.
Authorities believe Gotti still holds the rank of Gambino family boss but his son John Jr. runs day-to-day operations. He has lived alone in his cell since his June 1992 sentencing in New York.
Citadel Computer Systems Inc said on Tuesday that it acquired Kent-Marsh Ltd Inc and Astonishing Developments Inc.
The companies make cross-platform desktop security software for Windows and Macintosh operating systems. Terms of the deal were not disclosed.
A-Under 1 inch. B-1 inch to 1-1/8 inches. C-1-1/8 inches or more.
House Speaker Newt Gingrich used a community learning centre as a backdrop to voice support for welfare reform on Tuesday but found himself fielding complaints about the program's finances.
The Georgia Republican signed a letter urging President Clinton to approve sweeping welfare reform legislation that would end the 61-year-old federal guarantee of aid to the poor and delegate broad powers to states.
President Clinton announced earlier this month he intended to sign the legislation into law this week.
The learning centre, called Coach's Corner Project Light, was based in an old school building converted into a multipurpose community centre for a 56-year-old federal housing project in this largely affluent Atlanta suburb.
Programme founder Bobby Lankford, a former NFL coach, said the centre used computer-based teaching to tutor about 40 neighbourhood children in reading and basic language skills.
A $35,000 U.S. housing grant purchased the center's computers, tutorial software and computer training for a largely volunteer staff. But Lankford said its $60,000 annual operating budget consisted entirely of private donations from churches, civic groups, foundations and other sources.
Gingrich extolled the virtues of community-based learning as an alternative to federal assistance, but a staff member, administrative assistant Verona Martin, interrupted him to complain the center's director had not been paid and it had no budget.
"We're talking about teaching the kids, that's what we're here for. We're talking about doing it for the community. I think we should first pay the director. She has not had a penny," said Verona Martin, who described herself as an administrative assistant at the centre.
"We don't have a budget. We don't have stuff in here that the kids need," she said.
"I don't run the programme. I'm just here because I think it's a good concept," Gingrich responded.
Lankford denied the woman's allegations, saying the centre did not owe anyone anything. A Gingrich spokesman later described Martin as a friend of a former centre director who resigned in June.
The United States and its allies denounced India on Tuesday for preventing a nuclear test ban treaty from being adopted in Geneva and vowed to bring the pact to the U.N. General Assembly (UNGA) for signature.
The move by Indian ambassador Arundhati Ghose also drew immediate fire from rival Pakistan, whose envoy expressed concern about the "nuclear ambitions" of its eastern neighbour.
In a speech, Ghose confirmed India was vetoing the formal adoption of the treaty by the Conference on Disarmament and blocking its transmission to the United Nations in New York.
"Our opposition to that text continues," Ghose said. "We would not, therefore, agree to it being forwarded to the UNGA in any form by this conference."
New Delhi objects that the pact fails to commit nuclear powers to a firm timetable for total disarmament and does not stop them from making qualitative improvements in their nuclear arsenals through computer simulation and other costly methods.
It rejects a key clause saying that the pact would become law upon ratification by 44 states including India. In its view, this would infringe on its sovereign right to decide freely.
The five declared nuclear powers (Britain, China, France, Russia and the United States) were marshalling support to rescue the global pact and send the text via a special resolution to New York for action, according to Western diplomats.
The conference holds its next plenary session on Thursday to discuss the fate of the Comprehensive Test Ban Treaty (CTBT), a landmark pact banning all nuclear explosions.
U.S. disarmament ambassador Stephen Ledogar said: "India has formally vetoed the treaty text and made it clear that it would take whatever step was necessary to prevent the text being acted upon by the Conference on Disarmament."
But he said India was alone among the 44 countries with nuclear arms or nuclear reactors in objecting to the pact's entry-into-force formula and accused it of insincerity in its arguments against the draft treaty.
"The real reason is that the current government in New Delhi wants to maintain the Indian nuclear weapon option," Ledogar said. "That's regrettable, but that's within the sovereign right of India.
"The problem now is how the rest of us can do what we have to do," he added.
"We are now consulting, the rest of us, as to how, despite this most regrettable development in the Conference on Disarmament, we can get this text to New York for further action. That has to be done promptly. We have in effect played out the CD's options with this veto."
Britain's ambassador Sir Michael Weston agreed that India's rejection left no hope for reaching a pact through the Geneva forum, which began the negotiations in January 1994.
"Of course, we had always hoped it could be done by the CD in the orthodox way," Weston told Reuters. "Now that looks clearly impossible."
"As far as the text goes, there are plenty of other ways to get it to New York if that is what people want to do," he said.
Pakistan, a nuclear "threshold" state which has said it will not sign the pact unless India does, immediately took the floor after Ghose's speech to put the blame squarely on its rival.
Ambassador Munir Akram said in a speech: "Today, the mask of the "Smiling Buddha' has been torn off revealing the face of the Goddess of War."
Akram was referring to India's only nuclear blast in 1974, which was followed by the coded message "the Buddha has smiled".
"The leaders of our neighbour have proclaimed that they will keep their nuclear "options' open, that they reserve the right to conduct nuclear tests, that they will go ahead with their short and medium-range missile programmes," Akram said.
But the Pakistani said his country would be against any procedural manoeuvres sidestepping the Geneva body.
"We are all aware that the CTBT may well rise from the ashes, like the Phoenix, in the U.N. General Assembly.
"Pakistan would regret any procedure that circumvents the C.D. -- the single multilateral negotiating forum on disarmament," he said.
A leading member of France's ruling coalition urged the government on Tuesday to compromise on its threat to expel 300 African immigrants entrenched in a Paris church, 10 of them on a hunger strike for a month and a half.
Gilles de Robien, floor leader of the centrist UDF, junior partner in the governing majority, met a delegation of the protesters for talks at the National Assembly.
"We are ready to work day and night on such a delicate problem. Time is pressing," he told French radio as the hunger strikers began their 47th day of fasting.
"A firm policy does not bother me in principle," he added. "But there are special cases that deserve a close-up analysis. We are talking about men and women, not objects."
Interior Minister Jean-Louis Debre has said he would only discuss terms for the Africans' repatriation, fearing that concessions could unleash thousands of similar demands and play into the hands of the far right anti-immigrant National Front.
The highly-publicised protest by mostly Malian immigrants, including 110 children, has backed the government into a corner.
Hundreds of supporters stood a round-the-clock vigil around the Saint-Bernard church to prevent a possible police raid as politicians both Left and Centre called for a humane solution.
"The government is in a terrible bind. The protesters have too much support for the police to intervene," said Dominique Noguere, lawyer for the Human Rights League and some immigrants.
The opposition Socialists have agreed to a proposal by the Communist Party to ask President Jacques Chirac to intervene for the "sans papiers" (without papers) protesters.
The stand-off in the heavily immigrant Goutte d'Or district has grabbed headlines, but the protest does not appear to have rallied widespread support.
A demonstration in the heavily immigrant port of Marseille gathered only about 50 people on Monday. Another march was planned in Paris on Wednesday.
Greens leader Dominique Voynet praised de Robien's offer to talk with the immigrants. "It shows that there are divisions within the majority, and that not everybody shares Mr Debre's blind obscurantism," she said.
Outside the church, human rights activists, leftists and ordinary citizens lay on sleeping bags on the ground in the dark pre-dawn hours, ready to form a human barrage against a police raid they feared could be imminent.
"The government thought it could stand by and watch the movement crumble, but they didn't count on so much support," said Huguette Cordelier, a teacher who had spent three nights sleeping outside the church with her husband.
Abubakar Diop, the immigrants' spokesman, said the hunger strikers were extremely weak and could not to receive visitors or members of the press.
"At one point we asked them to stop their hunger strike because a little piece of paper is not worth dying for. But they have refused," he said. "
Lawyers say the immigrants' status is a legal tangle ranging from some people who are entitled to stay, to others who can be expelled outright, and others whose situation has become unclear following controversial 1993 laws to curb immigration.
"If the government can't tell the difference between illegal aliens and those who used to have papers but are refused them now, it doesn't know how to use the French language," Diop said.
Noguere said the problem affected many more foreigners in France than the 300 protesters. "When the law was passed, its effects were not taken into account," she said.
China's imports of wheat in the first seven months of this year were 5.73 million tonnes, up 30.7 percent from the same period last year, the China Securities newspaper said on Tuesday.
In July, wheat imports were 830,000 tonnes, down from 1.7 million tonnes in June, it said quoting customs statistics. It gave no year-ago figure for July.
Imports of rice in January-July were 390,000 tonnes, down 70.3 percent from the same 1995 period. Imports in July were 30,000 tonnes, down from 50,000 tonnes in June, it said.
Imports of corn in the first seven months were 440,000 tonnes, down 76.4 percent from the same period last year. No corn was imported in July.
Moody's Investors Service said the Australian government's 1996/97 budget, announced earlier on Tuesday, was not enough to prompt a review of the country's AA2 foreign-currency credit rating.
But fiscal tightening, such as that announced by Treasurer Peter Costello, was seen as generally positive, Moody's managing director of sovereign risk David Levy told Reuters by telephone from New York.
The budget implemented A$3.9 billion in savings for the fiscal year to June 1997, which Treasury said would cut the underlying budget deficit to A$5.6 billion.
The underlying budget balance -- which excludes asset sales -- would be in surplus in 1998/99, Treasury estimated.
"From our perspective the fiscal situation has generally always been a positive for Australia," Levy said.
"Our concern has been more on the external sector -- the balance of payments and so forth," Levy said.
"This is something we will factor in along with all the other factors but in and of itself one budget doesn't normally move a rating," he said.
The A$20 billion forecast for the 1996/97 current account deficit and other government forecasts appeared to be realistic, he said.
The award is expected Thursday, August 22, 1996.
Delivery is expected on September 26, 1996.
Juran & Moody, Inc.
Legg Mason Wood Walker, Inc.
Rauscher Pierce Refsnes, Inc.
Reigning Miss Universe, Venezuela's Alicia Machado, will keep the title even if she remains a few pounds overweight, Venezuelan beauty pageant officials said on Tuesday.
"She obviously has a weight problem which affects her swimsuit contracts but this does not mean she will be stripped of her crown," a top Miss Venezuela Organisation official told Reuters.
Machado was in the resort town of Las Cruces, New Mexico, on Tuesday to attend the 1996 Miss Teen USA Pageant in her official capacity as Miss Universe, teen pageant officials said. They said the 19-year-old Machado was there as the pageant's guest of honour, not to shed pounds.
Officials of the Los Angeles-based Miss Universe organisation declined comment on Machado's weight problem.
Machado was scheduled to make a public appearance during the teen pageant, which was to be held on Wednesday night at New Mexico State University and broadcast nationwide by CBS television, pageant officials said.
Miss Teen USA officials said Machado would not talk to reporters before the pageant and it was unclear if she would have anything to say publicly when the event was over.
Miss Venezuela officials had said on Monday that Machado had been given an ultimatum by Miss Universe organisers to lose 27 pounds (12 kg) in two weeks or risk losing the title. She was 5 feet 7 inches (1.73 meters) tall and weighed 112 pounds (51 kilos) when she became the fourth Venezuelan to win the crown in Las Vegas in May.
While the Miss Universe title "does not include any weight clauses," Machado should learn to control her appetite for the sake of her image, the pageant official said.
After she was awarded the title, Machado told reporters in Las Vegas she planned to do "something I haven't been able to do in three weeks: eat, eat, eat and sleep."
Those close to the beauty queen said she has difficulty sticking to diets and a weakness for pastas and cakes.
Britain's largest mortgage lender Halifax Building Society said on Tuesday another quarter point cut in official interests would not necessarily lead to further falls in Britain's historically low mortgage rates.
Halifax, which plans a stock market flotation next year, took a 7.2 percent share of net mortgage lending in the first half of the year and 15.2 percent of gross mortgage lending.
Pricing in the re-mortgage market -- when borrowers do not move home but shift their lender -- deterred the Halifax from competing actively, the society said.
"Given our size and position we can stand back," said Marsh.
Halifax's much-watched house price index for the 12 months to July showed a 5.3 percent rise.
"All the signs are that the recovery is sustainable," said Marsh. "We could well see houes price inflation in the 5.0 to 7.0 percent bracket for the next year or so," he added.
Mortgage rates, at their lowest for 30 years, may not fall further even if the Bank of England cuts its official 5.75 percent official base rate.
"If they (base rates) were to come down another quarter point you wouldn't necessarily expect further cuts in mortgage rates," said Marsh, although he said Halifax would look to see how its competitors reacted to such a cut.
"(Mortgage rates) are at or around their trough," said Marsh.
"Transactions are still at very low levels....but coming back quite nicely," said Marsh.
So far this year net lending is eight billion stg, which the Halifax forecasts will reach 16 billion stg by year end. That compares with 40 billion stg in the boom year of 1988, he said.
He said Halifax's profits in the first half of the year would have been 64 million stg higher if the society had not written off its mortgage incentives -- discounted rates and cashbacks -- straight away.
Before exceptionals that was a six percent rise compared with the six month period to January 31.
Halifax said it had changed its year end from January 31 to Dcember 31 and its results for January 1996 were included in two of the reported periods, including a 88.2 million stg charged for merger and integration costs.
The society said it was increasingly confident about the state of the housing market. "With a more disciplined marketing environment we see more profitable organic growth in mortgage lending emerging in the second half of this year and into the next," the society said.
The Federal Reserve is expected to refrain from open market operations on Tuesday, analysts and Fed watchers said.
"We are looking for no Fed today," said Dana Saporta, economist at Stone and McCarthy Research Associates Inc.
Analysts at consulting firm MMS International Inc also expect the Fed to stay out of the market.
At 1030 EDT/1430 GMT the federal funds rate was quoted at 5-1/8 percent, below the central bank's 5-1/4 percent target.
Orders placed by foreign investors through 11 foreign securities houses before the start of stock trading on Tuesday showed a net selling stance of 3.0 million shares, market sources said.
Foreign investors' buy orders totalled 17.70 million shares while sell orders amounted to 20.70 million.
Bankrupt online information service Europe Online SA logged off for good on Tuesday after last-ditch talks with Deutsche Telekom and others to keep the Luxembourg-based operation running bit the dust.
"Europe Online has ceased to operate. No agreement was reached by a deadline this morning so we had to close it down," Albert Wildgen, a member of the team of Europe Online's liquidators, told Reuters. He declined to give further details.
Subscribers attempting to connect into the service, which embattled Europe Online had managed to keep going right to the end, found an error message saying it could not be retrieved.
The company suffered a major financial blow when its biggest single shareholder, German publisher  Burda, said in July it was pulling the plug on further funding.
Desperate attempts followed to find new investors or shareholders, which included negotiations with rival U.S. online company CompuServe and Germany's Deutsche Telekom.
No deal was reached and the company was declared bankrupt on August 2.
A legal source close to the liquidation process, who asked not to be named, said Deutsche Telekom had decided late last week against salvaging the operation, adding, "It would have been a pure asset deal."
Similar talks had continued with two other, unnamed, parties but these too failed, the source said.
Deutsche Telekom, which was owed money by Europe Online for access to its own data network, said at the beginning of August that it remained interested in cooperation with the company.
"Deutsche Telekom wants to go international and one option was to chose the assets of Europe Online. But in the end they decided it was not worth it," the legal source said.
"Europe Online broke down at an early stage of its development -- it had brilliant ideas, but not enough substance (for Deutsche Telekom)," he added. Deutsche Telekom's own successful T-Online service has over a million German customers.
With about 25,000 subscribers altogether, multi-lingual Europe Online had national services in Germany, Britain and Luxembourg, as well as an international service in English, which included news, weather, travel, sports and entertainment.
Liquidators said all that was left now was to sell off the individual assets of the company. They said that at the time of its bankruptcy, Europe Online had debts of about $40 million, of which about $30 million in the form of loans by shareholders.
Besides Burda, with a 26-percent direct stake in Europe Online and a further seven percent in trust, other shareholders included two U.S. companies, AT&T and Meigher Communications, Britain's Pearson Plc, and Luxembourg's Banque et Caisse d'Epargne de l'Etat (BCEE) and Societe Nationale de Credit et d'Investissement (SNCI).
Despite its potential for growth in a burgeoning Internet market, Europe Online was plagued by shareholder disagreements over strategy since it was formed in 1994 to provide a European-language alternative to U.S. services.
Burda, which had at times provided as much as 50 percent of the venture's operating funds, had been pressing the company to change its management structure to streamline decision-making before it finally decided to stop further funding to concentrate on its own German Internet business.
Before Europe Online could launch in December 1995 French Lagardere Groupe's Matra-Hachette Multimedia withdrew. Axel-Springer Verlag of Germany cancelled a planned investment and Pearson lowered its stake.
The operation only started charging for its services in March. Europe Online had expected to be profitable in four years' time.
Japanese Prime Minister Ryutaro Hashimoto arrived in Mexico on Tuesday on the first leg of a five-nation, 10-day tour of Latin America.
Although Hashimoto made no comments to reporters upon his arrival at the Mexico City airport just before 11:30 a.m. EDT (1530 GMT), he was expected to announce credits to Mexico worth $940 million during his three-day trip, Mexican officials said.
Deputy Foreign Minister Juan Rebolledo Gout said on Monday that the credits -- aimed at ecological projects, small- and medium-sized firms and Mexican exporters -- would be signed by Mexican and Japanese officials on Wednesday.
The support comes as Hashimoto seeks to open a new trade front for Japanese industry in Latin America. Tokyo has already pumped nearly $60 billion in direct investment into the region over the past 14 years and its economic aid doubled between 1990 and 1995 to $1.14 billion.
Hashimoto will hold talks with President Ernesto Zedillo on Wednesday and will meet members of the Japanese-Mexican community during his stay.
Mexico was the first stop on a trip that will also take him to Chile, Brazil, Peru and Costa Rica.
A potential cloud over his trip was lifted on Monday when kidnappers released a top Japanese electronics executive in the Mexican-U.S. border city of Tijuana after a $2 million ransom was paid.
After nine days in captivity, Mamoru Konno, president of a U.S. subsidiary of Japan's Sanyo Electric Co was found in the basement of an unoccupied building after a Mexican police official contacted kidnappers with the money.
Aborigines burnt an Australian flag during an anti-budget rally in front of parliament house on Tuesday and clashed with police as Treasurer Peter Costello assured Australians his first budget at 0930 GMT would be fair.
Hundreds of other Aborigines staged rallies in Brisbane and Adelaide against already announced cuts to indigenous funding in the 1996/97 budget.
"Everyone, if you want to come and stamp on the white law, and the white flag, stamp on the ashes like they stamped on ours," said an Aborigine as the Australian flag burned.
The aboriginal protest, which attracted about 1,000 people, was rowdy, with chanting, didgeridoo playing and rhythm sticks. At one stage Aborigines tried to enter the nearby old parliament house, but were repelled by police in riot gear.
About 150 Aborigines attacked police with bricks, bottles and stakes during a 20-minute confrontation at the old parliament house. One policewoman was repeatedly kicked and has been taken to hospital in a serious condition, a police spokeswoman said.
On Monday, an anti-government rally of 15,000 unionists, Aborigines, students and welfare groups in front of Canberra's parliament ended in a riot, as hundreds of protesters stormed into the parliament's foyer.
Police wearing riot gear took two hours to control the riot.
"All we want is justice in our own country," aboriginal activist Charles Perkins told Tuesday's rally.
"We don't want budget cuts -- it's hard enough as it is," said Perkins, standing in front of a map of Australia painted with the aboriginal flag and the words: "Sovereignty never ceded". "The money that Australia has comes from aboriginal land. Give us a fair go," he said.
Aborigines, the most disadvantaged group in Australian society, have labelled "racist" A$400 million (US$312 million) in indigenous spending cuts over the next four years.
Deputy chair of the peak Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander Commission, Ray Robinson, told Tuesday's rally that reconciliation between white and black Australia was dead.
"Forget about reconciliation that's finished," he said.
"They say we must continue on with the reconciliation. Do you stab someone in the guts with a knife and while they are dying, say we want to be friends? It doesn't happen that way."
The five-month-old Liberal-National government was to announce its budget to June 30, 1997 at 0930 GMT. The budget will be its first and the first for a conservative Australian government in 14 years.
"It's going to be a fair budget, and we are looking forward to putting in place the measures that will help families and small businesses and get Australia moving," treasurer Costello told reporters on Tuesday morning.
The government has promised to cut A$4.0 billion from its maiden budget in a tough fiscal programme aimed at achieving a budget surplus within three years. The budget deficit for 1995/96 was A$10.3 billion.
Financial markets are concerned about Australia's chronic national savings and external debt problems and are counting on Costello slashing the budget deficit, hopefully by more than the forecast A$4.0 billion.
South Africa's money market shortage surged 831 million rand on Monday to 8.847 billion rand, Reserve Bank figures show.
Money market traders had varying reasons for the rise, ranging from Reserve Bank manipulation to Standard Bank's repayment of its three billion rand foreign loan which it drew in May.
"Our view is that the Reserve Bank is trying to keep the shortage at these levels via the tax and loan accounts or by the forex accounts," one trader said.
"By doing so the Bank keeps short-term rates where they are and keeps the squeeze on (commercial) banks without having to hike Bank rate," he said.
But John Cruickshank, Standard Bank domestic treasury director, said that argument was counterproductive.
"If the (central) Bank keeps the squeeze on the banks then the implication is that rates have to be hiked," he said.
Three-month NCDs were static at between 16.65 to 16.85 percent while the 90-day BA rate was also unchanged at between 16.05 and 16.25 percent.
Another dealer said the higher shortage was a result of Standard Bank repaying part of the three billion rand offshore loan it drew in May.
"We believe that in the course of this month, Standard Bank has been repaying part of its offshore loans," the dealer said.
Cruickshank had no comment on the speculation.
He said that the differing explanations offered for the higher shortage highlighted the fact "that we are all working in a market which is to some extent rather confusing".
"The fact that the shortage can gyrate to the extent that it has is disquieting at the best of times," Cruickshank said.
Indian call money ended Tuesday unchanged from the day's opening levels of 10.25-10.75 percent, dealers said.
Most of the day's trade was around 10.5 percent, they said.
Dealers said call money rates seemed to have settled at the levels they were at in May and June before the Reserve Bank of India (RBI) reduced cash reserve requirements by one percentage point in the first week of July.
"Call is likley to remain between 10 percent and 11 percent for the next couple of weeks," a dealer at a foreign bank said. "Eleven percent will be a resistance level as banks can avail refinance against export credit from the RBI at this rate."
Dealers said call rates would pick up from mid-September as liquidity was sucked out of the system through government borrowings and corporate demand for credit started picking up.
"Traditionally, the demand for credit picks up from mid-September," a dealer said. "We can expect the 11 percent barrier to be breached then."
Dealers said the securities market was inactive barring a few stray deals in treasury bills and short-dated securities.
No trades were reported in commercial paper.
Dealers said a financial institution issued a one-year certificate of deposit on Tuesday at 15.25 percent.
Rates on inter-corporate deposits remained unchanged at 17-19 percent for top-rated borrowers.
Wheat First Butcher Singer Inc., said it won $5.645 million of Virginia Housing Development Authority, Va., multi-family housing revenue bonds, 1996 Series K (Taxable), with a true interest cost of 7.797  percent.
* Redman Industries Inc and Champion Enterprises Inc said they reached a merger agreement under which each Redman share will be converted into 1.24 Champion shares. Redman closed on Monday at 25-3/4 and Champion closed at 21-5/8.
* Limited Inc reported second quarter earnings of $0.12 per share versus pro forma earnings of $0.10 a year ago. Shares closed at 19-7/8.
* Intimate Brands Inc reported second quarter earnings of $0.19 per share versus pro forma earnings of $0.16 a year ago. Shares closed at 21-1/4.
* Vermont Teddy Bear Co said it expects to post a small profit for the fiscal year, compared to a loss of $0.48 per share in the previous year. Shares closed at 3-1/8.
U.S. West Coast product prices were little changed in lifeless trade on Monday and players said ranges were hard to discern as most traders were attending an industry social event.
Traders saw prices falling modestly this week, with refinery problems resolved and production relatively normal.
CARB-grade gasoline in Los Angeles was up one cent from Friday to 68/69 cents a gallon, with premium four cents higher. Regular conventional gasoline remained at the 65/66-cent level.
CARB diesel was also flat from Friday at 69/71 cents a gallon, while low sulphur stayed at 69/70 cents.
Traders saw at least two cargoes of jet fuel coming to the West Coast this week, drawn by the market's current premium to the East and Gulf Coasts.
Los Angeles jet fuel was talked one cent lower at 71.50/72.50 cents, but players expected prices to hold relatively steady as incoming cargoes were balanced by supply shortness following last month's numerous hydrotreater problems.
In San Francisco, conventional gasoline was three cents cheaper than L.A., while CARB quality was about five cents lower.
Hundreds of U.S. Army troops arrived in northern California on Tuesday to reinforce fire lines as fierce blazes continued to blacken huge areas of bone-dry trees and brush across the western United States.
Weary firefighters were battling 34 large blazes across nine states. Five new wildfires were reported in Arizona, Montana, Nevada and Utah. But cooler temperatures and more favourable winds helped firefighters in California and Oregon.
In Colorado, a fire raging in the Mesa Verde National Park exploded in size overnight to 4,000 acres (1,600 hectares). Mesa Verde, with its Anasazi cliff dwellings, is a major archaeological preserve.
The National Interagency Fire Centre reported that 34 large fires in the West were scorching 501,458 acres (202,900 hectares) with the most intense blazes in California and Oregon. Tuesday's fire count was down sharply from Sunday, when the fire centre reported a total of 46 large fires on 502,970 acres (203,500 hectares).
"At the moment, we seem to be getting a handle on things," said Renee Snyder, a spokeswoman for the fire centre in Boise, Idaho. "But by the end of the week, we're expecting more fire starts as the lightning increases again in the West."
On Tuesday, more than 19,300 personnel were assigned to the fires, supported by 153 helicopters and 30 airtankers. Faced with a shortage of crews, authorities called for help from the Army, prison inmates and firefighters from the East.
In northern California, reinforcements arrived from Colorado to help battle the Fork fire, 100 miles (160 km) north of San Francisco. The 600-person task force was made up of U.S. Army soldiers based in Fort Carson, Colorado. The group received a crash course in fire fighting on Monday.
The Fork fire expanded by 7,000 acres (2,833 hectares) overnight to 77,000 acres (31,160 hectares) on Tuesday, fuelled by 70-year-old hardwood, pine and brush, said Theresa Klepl, a fire information officer.
The blaze, estimated thus far to have cost $8.1 million to fight, forced authorities on Sunday to order the evacuation of 400 homes in Spring, High and Long valleys.
But authorities on Tuesday reported significant progress battling the blaze. The fire was now 25 percent contained.
In San Luis Obispo County, midway between San Francisco and Los Angeles, a wildfire has consumed 69,500 acres (28,130 hectares), up from 69,000 acres (27,920 hectares) on Monday. But fire officials said they expected to contain the blaze by Tuesday evening.
In the southwest corner of Colorado, the Mesa Verde National Park fire blew up to 4,000 acres (1,600 hectares) overnight from 600 (240 hectares) on Monday, officials said.
"This (fire) is the top priority in the Rocky Mountain region," said U.S. Forest Service spokesman Bob Irvine.
The wind-whipped fire has engulfed pinion pines and juniper trees, but officials said none of the park's major structures have been lost to the blaze.
About 350 firefighters from Colorado, Wyoming, Montana and Arizona, including a crew from the Hopi Indian tribe, were sent to the scene. Officials hoped another 100 personnel would also be sent in, Irvine said.
Oregon authorities said they expected later on Tuesday to fully contain the largest of the active fires in the central part of the state.
"Things are looking much better," said Terry Virgin, information officer with the Central Oregon Interagency Dispatch Centre. "It's been a long siege."
- A representative of the Latvian foreign ministry met the Lithuanian charge d'affaires Arunas Vinciunas to explain Latvia's position on the construction of the oil terminal in Butinge. Latvia wants a joint study of the environmental affects of the project on the Baltic sea region.
- 29 cars crashed on the road between Riga and the seaside region of Jurmala due to fog. The accident is believed to be the second largest in Latvia's recent history.
- A majority of deputies in parliament voted against replacing deputy speaker Andris Ameriks (Democratic Party 'Saeimnieks') by Aivars Jirgens (Fatherland & Freedom). Deputies also rejected the dismissal of Defence Minister Andrej Krastinsh and did not take a no-confidence vote against the head of the central bank Einar Repshe.
- Prime Minister Andris Shkele took part in a meeting of Latvian teachers, which focussed on plans to reform the system of paying salaries to teachers by transferring it to local governments. Shkele wants the reform to be enforced from September 1.
- Nine parliamentary deputies from the Chechnya support group called on parliament to recognise the independence of the break-away republic de jure and de facto.
- After paying off a part of its debt, Latvia has recovered the right to vote in the U.N.
- Foreign Minister Valdis Birkavs speaks about priorities of the Latvian foreign policy, which includes more work on getting the support of Western countries for Latvia's EU and NATO entry.
- Shkele will pay an official visit to Russia at the beggining of September. On return from Moscow, he has scheduled a visit to Iceland.
- Igor Tsonde, representative of the Singapore company Interlorg BTE in Latvia, was shot on August 18 while training in a sports hall in Jurmala. The company he represented is one of the founders of the huge Europe Center supermarket, recently built in Riga.
Danish consumer prices fell 0.5 per cent in July from June and were 2.6 percent higher than in July 1995, the National Statistics Office said on Tuesday.
NOTE - Average analyst expectations were for a 2.2 percent rise from July 1995 according to the national formula.
Satellite operator PT Asia Cellular Satellite (ACeS) unveiled ambitious plans on Tuesday to capture a large chunk of the Asia-Pacific mobile telecommunications market.
"We aim to capture at least 600,000 subscribers across the Asia-Pacific after two to three years in operation," chief executive officer Adi Adiwoso told Reuters.
"The aim may look overly ambitious. But it is not if you know that our satellite covers three billion people in the Asia-Pacific," Adiwoso said.
ACeS is equally owned by Indonesia's PT Pasifik Satelit Nusantara, the Philippine Long Distance Telephone Company and Thailand's Jasmine International Overseas Company, Ltd which is a subsidiary of telecoms giant Jasmine International Public Company Ltd.
"Our initial focus is, however, on the more than 330 million people living in Indonesia, Thailand and the Phillipines where we are building the initial gateways," Adiwoso said.
He said the ACeS's Garuda satellites, being built by Lockheed Martin Corporation of the United States, will enable any cellular telephone subscriber to make phone calls to some 24 countries in the Asia-Pacific region.
"You can use your cellular hand phone from any remote island in Indonesia to a cellular user in a remote place in Pakistan. The cost for using our satellite's service is only one (U.S.) dollar for one minute air time," Adiwoso said.
He said the ACeS system would also enable cellular telephone users to call fixed telephone subscribers anywhere in the world through its gateways.
The first Garuda satellite is scheduled for launch in the middle of 1998 and after the completion of in-orbit testing, the ACeS system will be operational in the second half of 1998, the firm said.
ACeS, with its satellite-based mobile communications system, offers an attractive alternative for many developing countries like the archipelagic Indonesia and the Phillipines, he said.
A large, but dispersed demand exists outside major areas of these developing nations that will never be adequately served by terrestrial systems, he said.
ACeS was incorporated in Indonesia's Batam island, which borders Singapore, in June 1995 with paid-up capital of $210 million.
Adiwoso said the company is considering seeking some $300 million in loans from overseas markets, in addition to a $210 million loan from shareholders, to finance its $720 million investment.
"We are still considering the types of financial instruments that we would seek. The final decision is expected to be made in October this year," he said.
German money supply growth continued to slow in July on average after slowing in April and June, the Bundesbank said in a statement, citing annualised M3 growth at 8.6 percent in July after 9.6 percent in June.
The central bank said that July growth was dampened by public sector cash positions but that bank lending to the private sector had picked up again after a weak June.
Non-banks reduced their holdings of money market fund certificates in July while standard savings deposits with three-month notice period grew "fairly strongly," the Bundesbank said in a statement.
But short-term deposits again fell markedly, the Bundesbank added.
"Bank lending to domestic companies and private individuals picked up again in July after being very weak in the previous month," the Bundesbank said.
But bank lending growth in July was not as strong as in the intitial months of the year, it added.
The expansion of long-term bank lending accelerated in July compared with June and May. But short-term business loans fell in July.
Statewide Financial Corp said Monday it declared an initial quarterly dividend of $0.10 per common share.
The quarterly dividend will be payable September 30 to shareholders of record September 10.
This is the first dividend paid by Statewide Financial since its initial public offering in September 1995.
--New York Newsdesk 212-859-1610.
Chile's state oil company Empresa Nacional del Petroleo (ENAP) has issued another buy tender for October crude oil, attempting to secure supplies in a thin market, traders said on Tuesday.
The new tender asks for 960,000 barrels of crude to be delivered during October 15-18, and closes on Thursday.
ENAP last week purchased 380,000 barrels of Ecuadorian Oriente from a trader at a price around Ecuador's sales formula plus five cents (fob), with an option for a second cargo.
"They are probably still trying to secure intermediate West African crudes, and at a better price," a trader said, noting prior offers may not have been at competitive prices.
ENAP recently bought crudes from Gabon, Angola and Nigeria, but expensive premiums and costly freight have proved prohibitive, while regional supplies have also been thin.
Wolf Creek Nuclear Operating Corp expects its 1,200 megawatt nuclear power plant at Burlington, Kansas, to reach full production late Tuesday or early Wednesday, a company spokeswoman said.
The plant briefly reached 100 percent output late Monday after reducing power to repair a crack in the "B" main feedwater pump system, but was forced to again reduce power early Tuesday to correct a problem with the "A" main feedwater pump, spokeswoman Mona Grimsley said.
"It looks like we will be able to get the problem fixed and be back at 100 percent tonight or early tomorrow," Grimsley said Tuesday.
The unit was operating at 55-60 percent of its electrical production capacity as of Tuesday afternoon, she said.
Wolf Creek is 47 percent owned by Kansas City Power & Light Co, 47 percent by KGE, a Western Resources Inc subsidiary, and six percent by Kansas Electric Power Cooperative Inc.
London white sugar futures closed firmer on Tuesday, adding to gains seen the previous day.
Most active October finished $1.50 higher at $353.30 per tonne after trading between $354.00 and $351.90.
December ended 70 cents firmer at $346.50.
Turnover was 2,069 lots.
Traders said prices were expected to consolidate after they broke out of their recent trading range.
Once the market gathered enough strength, it could challenge resistance at $355.50, above where stops are said to be lurking.
Support is pegged at $352, then $350.
In Paris, October closed $1.20 stronger at $353.00 and December was also $1.20 higher at $347.50.
A Belgian court formally charged a fourth person on Tuesday in a major child sex scandal in which two eight-year-old girls have died and at least four others were abducted.
Officials said the court decided to keep Brussels businessman Jean-Michel Nihoul, detained on charges of criminal association, in jail.
Convicted paedophile Marc Dutroux and associate Michel Lelievre were formally charged last Friday with abduction and illegal imprisonment after police rescued two young girls from a house owned by Dutroux in the southern town of Charleroi.
Dutroux led police on Saturday to the buried bodies of Julie Lejeune and Melissa Russo who died of starvation early this year after being kidnapped in June 1995.
Dutroux's wife Michelle Martin was charged on Monday with being an accomplice in the abduction and imprisonment of children.
Nihoul's lawyer, Clement de Clety, earlier told reporters that Nihoul knew Lelievre and Dutroux.
"(Nihoul) just gave (them) his car for two or three days to repair it and to pass it on to the technical control authorities. These are the only concrete points in the file, nothing more," de Clety said.
Belgian media said earlier on Tuesday that the Dutch boyfriend of Nihoul's ex-wife had also been arrested, but court sources said the charges against him had been dropped and that he had only been questioned.
The Electoral Commission on Tuesday released details of broadcasting time and funding for political parties for the coming election, but was critical of the system it operated under.
The commission said the criteria in the Broadcasting Act were deficient and neeeded to be re-examined after the election.
It said the allocation of money had not been increased since 1990 but now had to be divided among 20 elligible parties.
"If the commission makes no allocation to a minor party, that party cannot obtain any broadcasting time," the commission said. However granting funds to small parties disadvantaged larger parties because they were prevented from buying more broadcasting time with their own funds.
It allocated $534,360 to the ruling National Party, $431,540 to the main opposition Labour Party and about $250,000 each to the Alliance and New Zealand First.
The "joke" party McGillicuddy Serious, the Aotearoa Legalise Cannabis Party and the one MP Conservative Party each get $35,000 as do the Progressive Greens and the "transcendentalists" of the Natural Law Party.
Smaller amounts are allocated to eight other parties.
On top of the funds allocated, the 12 largest parties also receive free radio and television time on state broadcasters for their opening and closing addresses.
London, Aug 20 - Chevron unit Gulf Oil will close their crude furnace at the U.K. Milford Haven refinery on Wednesday, for a maximum six days, a spokesman said on Tuesday.
A small leak was discovered in the crude furnace around 2200 GMT on Sunday. Inspection and repair of the hole will take 24-36 hours.
Crude throughput has been reduced since then from 115,000 barrels per day (bpd) to 100,000 bpd.
"The terminal is well stocked and we have enough in storage to cover a short shut-down," the spokesman said.
The presidential press service, denying new rumours that President Boris Yeltsin was ill, said on Tuesday that the Kremlin leader had started a two-day break in the picturesque lakeland of northwestern Russia.
A spokesman said Yeltsin would size up prospects for a longer vacation in Valdai, which is some 350 km (220 miles) northwest of Moscow. But an official in the Novgorod region where Valdai is located said they knew nothing about the visit.
"We have no information about a visit from the president," the local official said.
Yeltsin, 65, has not been seen in public since he was inaugurated for a second term in office on August 9.
Rumours have circulated in Russia and in the West that he is ill, but the presidential press office has denied them all, saying Yeltsin has been working every day on decrees.
But the Russian Security Council, which groups top officials and is managed by newly appointed Alexander Lebed, issued a statement doubting the authenticity of Yeltsin's recent orders on Chechnya, where fighters want independence from Russia.
"The contents of the documents give solid grounds to doubt that the president of Russia took a direct part in finalising the text of the order," said the statement.
Yeltsin on Sunday ordered Lebed, whom he had put in charge of handling the 20-month conflict in Chechnya, to restore Russian control over the capital Grozny from separatists who seized large parts of it on August 6.
But the statement said Yeltsin's orders were issued with a facsimile of the president's signature rather than signed by the president in person. It has also said Lebed was unaware of the preparation of the orders -- which violated normal procedure.
Itar-Tass news agency quoted presidential press secretary Sergei Yastrzhembsky as saying the statement on Yeltsin's trip to Valdai had been issued "in connection with the usual guesses and suppositions about the president's whereabouts".
He dismissed as "complete rubbish" a report by Ekho Moskvy radio that Yeltsin had been in a specialist cardiological centre since August 15.
Ekho Moskvy quoted informed sources as saying that doctors at the centre, named after heart specialist Yevgeny Chazov, had diagnosed the president's condition as of average seriousness.
"In the coming hours the question of carrying out a surgical operation may be decided," the radio said.
However, it also quoted the acting head doctor at the centre as saying Yeltsin was not there. "You can come and see for yourself," the doctor said.
Yastrzhembsky said Yeltsin and Prime Minister Viktor Chernomyrdin were continuing to work on the formation of the new Russian government, most of which was announced last week.
Yeltsin suffered two heart attacks last year and his disappearance from the public eye in late June triggered fresh rumours about his health.
Yastrzhembsky on Monday denied a report by the U.S. magazine Time which said Yeltsin had suffered from heart problems again in the second half of June.
Time said that, according to an official Kremlin medical advisory it had obtained, the president needed round-the-clock monitoring and the Kremlin was considering transferring him to a Swiss clinic for a bypass operation.
"This information is part of a series of rumours and conjectures concerning the state of the president's health," Yastrzhembsky told a news briefing.
IMM currency futures ended pit trading mixed after edging upward when the U.S. Federal Open Market Committee, as expected, left short-term rates steady.
Some traders tied the firming, which briefly tugged most currencies to the day's peaks, to "buy-the-rumor, sell-the-fact" activities vis-a-vis the dollar.
"I'm surprised as well...but there must have been a small amount of insurance (dollar) buying before the meeting," said Chris Turner, currency strategist, IDEA Inc.
"When the FOMC was over, the dollar went offered," said a floor broker at the Chicago Mercantile Exchange. "But when the Redbook hit the street, the dollar rallied."
Retail sales rose 1.2 percent in the first two weeks of August versus July, according to Lynch, Jones & Ryan Inc Redbook retail sales index.
Focus shifted to Wednesday's IFO business climate survey for softness that might bolster arguments for a German cut.
Turner also said his firm did not look for a German ease until the Bundesbank sees more months of evidence that M3 growth has slowed to within its four-percent to seven-percent target corridor.
Other pundits, however, said slowing in July M3 growth to an 8.6-percent rate fueled expectations the Bundesbank will cut its 3.30-percent repo rate at Thursday's council meeting.
Currencies dipped early in the session after a smaller-than-expected June U.S. trade deficit. The trade gap shrank 23.1 percent to $8.11 billion against forecasts for a $9.4-billion shortfall.
At settlement, September yen fell $0.000050 to $0.009261, marks eased $0.0004 to $0.6728, Swiss francs firmed $0.0009 to $0.8313, Sterling gained $0.0032 to $1.5476, Canadian dollar slipped $0.0001 to $0.7288, Australian dollar lost $0.0041 to $0.7854, and the Mexican peso rose $0.000350 to $0.131875.
Zimbabwean industrial shares continued active on Tuesday, but losses in some key counters dragged the main industrial index 15.06 points lower to 5,517.66.
Dealers noted that 20-, 10-, and 40-cent losses in Tobacco Sales Limited (TSL) at 340, cement producer Circle Cement at 670 and multi-industrial group Radar at 140 outweighed gains recorded by several stocks, including bluechip conglomerate Delta which climbed 10 cents to 2,610.
The dealers however expect the Zimbabwe Stock Exchange to stay on a bullish path on strong foreign interest.
The secondary seven-share mining index slipped 1.96 points to 1,248.17, partly weakened by a 15-cent loss in coal producer Wankie which traded at 285.
The following Corex issue was increased by lead manager Commerzbank AG.
	   ON 29.MAR.96 AND INCREASED SIX TIMES SINCE.
	   YEAR INDEX TIMES 70 PCT ON A 30/360 DAY BASIS.
A.G. Edwards & Sons, Inc.
Roosevelt & Cross, Inc.
Advest, Inc.
Smith Barney Inc.
Dean Witter Reynolds Inc.
All Tokyo corn futures contracts ended higher on Tuesday, reflecting technical buying from local investors, local traders said.
Prices were 80 to 220 yen higher, with the benchmark September contract up 80 yen at 17,910 yen per tonne. Daily volume was 59,775 lots.
All contracts gained from the opening, as individual investors continued to buy despite the price fall in the CBOT corn futures market overnight, the traders said.
The spot September contract on the CBOT Project A trading system rose to $3.65-1/2 per bushel by 0820 GMT, against $3.64 at Monday's close. Light buying from Asian traders pushed up CBOT corn futures, the traders said.
The September contract on the CBOT soybean project A trading system was traded at $7.91 at 0828 GMT, against $7.87 at Monday's close.
Peru's government had a primary surplus of 1.094 billion soles ($447 million) in the first half of 1996, compared with a 250 million sol deficit in the same period last year, the Central Reserve Bank said on Tuesday.
The primary surplus is the difference between the central government's spending, excluding interest payments on debt, and its income, according to the central bank.
The first half primary surplus was principally due to an eight percent increase in tax revenue to 10.608 billion soles and a six percent decrease in current account spending to 8.755 billion soles, the bank said.
The government agreed with the International Monetary Fund on a goal of increasing its primary surplus to one percent of gross domestic product (GDP) this year from 0.3 percent last year. Peru's GDP is around $60 billion, according to economy minister Jorge Camet.
Angola's National Coffee Institute (INCA) has forecast a 5,000-tonne coffee harvest for 1996, unchanged from last year's production.
INCA Director Manuel Dias told the state news agency Angop the figure was, however, not an accurate reflection of total production since many coffee-growing areas were still under the control of the former UNITA rebel movement.
Angola produced over 200,000 tonnes of coffee in the early 1970s but production came to standstill when a 20-year civil war started between government and UNITA forces, after independence from Portugal.
Many of the plantations have stood untouched since the war, which ended with the signing of a peace pact in 1994, due to a lack of financial resources.
Angola liberalised its coffee sector in 1991/92 but the state defines policy and quality control through INCA.
Dias said $12 million was necessary to rehabilitate 90,000 hectares of coffee plantations, of which 30,000 was for private business operators.
California Amplifier Inc said on Tuesday that David Nichols, an executive vice-president who co-founded the company in 1981, resigned to pursue personal interests.
The company also said Allyn Hall has joined the firm as director of the company's broadband scrambling technology.
Shares of California Amplifier closed 1/8 lower at 7-7/8 on the Nasdaq.
President Boris Yeltsin started a two-day break in the picturesque lakeland of Valdai in northwestern Russia on Tuesday, the presidential press service said, denying rumours that the Kremlin leader was ill.
A spokesman said Yeltsin would size up prospects for a longer vacation in Valdai. "It is expected that Boris Yeltsin will return to Moscow this week where he will hold a series of meetings with members of the government," he said.
Valdai, in the Novgorod region about 350 km (220 miles) northwest of Moscow, has been mentioned by Kremlin aides as a possible holiday destination for the 65-year-old leader.
Itar-Tass news agency quoted presidential press secretary Sergei Yastrzhembsky as saying the statement on Yeltsin's departure had been issued "in connection with the usual guesses and suppositions about the president's whereabouts".
He dismissed as "complete rubbish" a report by Ekho Moskvy radio that Yeltsin had been in a specialist cardiological centre since August 15.
Ekho Moskvy quoted informed sources as saying that doctors at the centre, named after heart specialist Yevgeny Chazov, had diagnosed the president's condition as of average seriousness.
"In the coming hours the question of carrying out a surgical operation may be decided," the radio said.
However, it also quoted the acting head doctor at the centre as saying Yeltsin was not there. "You can come and see for yourself," the doctor said.
Yastrzhembsky said Yeltsin and Prime Minister Viktor Chernomyrdin were continuing to work on the formation of the new Russian government, most of which was announced last week.
Yeltsin suffered two heart attacks last year and his disappearance from the public eye in late June triggered rumours about his health.
Yeltsin has made only one public appearance since June 26, briefly turning up at his inauguration ceremony on August 9.
Aides say he suffered "colossal weariness" after his reelection campaign, but they deny he has suffered new heart trouble.
Yastrzhembsky on Monday denied a report by the U.S. magazine Time which said Yeltsin had suffered from heart problems again in the second half of June.
Time said that, according to an official Kremlin medical advisory it had obtained, the president needed round-the-clock monitoring and the Kremlin was considering transferring him to a Swiss clinic for a bypass operation.
"This information is part of a series of rumours and conjectures concerning the state of the president's health," Yastrzhembsky told a news briefing.
He said the president, whom he had met recently, had been doing paperwork every day at a residence near Moscow.
Yeltsin, who frequently spends vacations at the Black Sea resort of Sochi, had been expected to start a holiday outside Moscow after his inauguration.
The Valdai area, a mixture of thick woods and hundreds of lakes where Russia's River Volga originates, is a long-time resort area popular for its mild climate and beautiful nature.
London, Aug 20 - Chevron unit Gulf Oil cut crude oil throughput at its Milford Haven refinery following a problem at the weekend, a spokesman said on Tuesday.
A small leak was discovered in the crude furnace around 2200 GMT on Sunday.
Crude throughput was reduced from 115,000 barrels per day (bpd) to 100,000 bpd.
The furnace will be shut down and repaired but no decision has been made yet as to when this will happen.
It is not yet known how long it would take to bring the unit back up, the spokesman said.
Market sources estimated the shut down would take six to seven days.
Managers at the refinery were currently in a meeting discussing the problem, he added.
"The terminal is well stocked and we have enough in storage to cover a short shut-down," the spokesman said.
The South African government has earmarked transport as the second sector to be assessed for privatisation with air transport on the agenda for a meeting on Friday, Trade and Industry Minister Alec Erwin said on Tuesday.
Erwin, standing in for Public Enterprises Minister Stella Sigcau, who is ill, told a news conference that the search for a foreign equity partner for state-owned telecommunications group Telkom remained on track for completion by early next year.
"The next sector will be transportation, but there is no overall timetable, it doesn't make sense to do that," he said.
Erwin said the government would not publish its proposals for the full or partial privatisation of transportation services until they had been discussed with labour unions in line with a National Framework Agreement (NFA) on privatisation.
Government privatisation adviser Kennedy Memani said officials were in the process of identifying separate entities within the transportation sector, ranging from the road transportation company to the South African Airways, and drafting a range of options for each.
He said options for the air transportation industry would be discussed with unions at an NFA meeting on Friday.
President Nelson Mandela has declared privatisation to be the official policy of his African National Congress government and the commitment was reiterated in the macro-economic framework for growth and development released by Finance Minister Trevor anuel in June.
The first sales of government-owned enterprises are likely to be radio stations owned by the South African Broadcasting Corporation with foreign minority shareholder for the giant Telkom telephone and telecommunications company next.
But Erwin confirmed that agreement in principle had been reached with labour unions on an outside equity partner for the state-owned Airports Company, which reported a 223.3 million rand ($52.4 million) profit on Monday.
The Business Day newspaper reported on Tuesday that the government was considering a three to five-year limit on the South African Rail Commuter Corporation's monopoly on commuter rail services before allowing private competitors into the market.
Erwin said there was no logjam in the privatisation process, but stressed that it would be handled cautiously.
"The National Framework Agreement sets up the ability to deal with each and every case. This is not going to be an easy process...but what's accepted is an agreement to manage the process," he said.
Israel test launched its Arrow 2-anti-missile missile on Tuesday, a spokeswoman for Israel Aircraft Industries said.
"There was a test of the missile at 15:16 (12:16 GMT). The initial data show that the implementation was as planned...and the target was hit," the spokeswoman said.
The test, which local media had anticipated for some days, was expected to consist of launching an Arrow against another missile, according to local media reports.
The launch came a day after Israel's Channel Two television reported that Syria had recently test launched an advanced Scud-C missile capable of hitting Israeli cities.
The Arrow 2 is a U.S.-funded Israeli missile designed to intercept and destroy incoming missiles.
Pakistani cotton rates, sliding for the past few days on expected bumper crop, closed steady on Tuesday on a report that the leaf curl virus had hit 30 to 40 percent of the 1996/97 (July-June) crop in the Punjab province's Multan region, dealers said.
"Cotton rates may go up if the report is true," dealer Amir Merchant said, referring to the virus report by Pakistan Agricultural Research Council report from Multan, Pakistan's largest cotton growing area.
The private Karachi Cotton Association (KCA) said exports had reached 1.82 million 375-lb bales by July 31 since the 1995/96 picking season began on September 1, 1995.
Dealers had registered 2.33 million bales for export with the state-run Export Promotion Bureau, the KCA said.
Cartonboard manufacturer Mayr-Melnhof Karton AG (MMK) said on Tuesday it expected an overall improvement in earnings this year compared to 1995, adding it would reinstate a dividend payment for 1996.
"Although the second half-year is normally weaker than the first, the foundations have been laid for an improvement in results for the year as a whole compared to the previous year," MMK said in a statement released before its news conference.
MMK said that group pre-tax profit in the first six months of this year slipped four percent to 371 million schillings.
For 1995, MMK reported a 17.8 percent rise in group pre-tax profit to 430 million schillings, but rattled investors by scrapping its dividend after paying out a 14 schilling dividend in 1994.
"A dividend will be paid on the financial year 1996," MMK said, without elaborating.
Australian Treasurer Peter Costello said the government plans to introduce legislation requiring semi-annual updates of the economic and fiscal outlook.
The proposed legislation would introduce principles for the sound management of fiscal policy and a formal requirement that each government clearly outlined its fiscal strategy.
"The principles will require governments to give consideration to the impact of policy on: government debt and managing fiscal risks; national saving; the stability and integrity of the tax base; and equity between generations," the Treasurer said in a statement.
As part of the proposed Charter, a new detailed system of reporting would be introduced, and these are tabled below.
The Fiscal Strategy statement was intended to increase public awareness of fiscal policy objectives and establish a benchmark for evaluating the conduct of fiscal policy.
Costello said the statement should outline the longer term objectives for fiscal policy within which shorter term policies would be framed, and explain the broad strategic priorities on which the budget was based.
It was proposed that the Budget report would be presented each year with the annual appropriations, while the mid-year report was to be published by the end of December.
The pre-election report was to be released within 10 days of an election's announcement to ensure the availability of updated information prior to the election.
Each five years an intergenerational report, assessing the long-term sustainability of current polices, would be issued to help ensure fiscal policy addresses both short and long-term policy issues, Costello said.
Shares in French computer systems house Axime fell heavily on Tuesday, on disappointing 1995/96 profit figures and a broker downgrade, traders said.
(Corrects results period in headline and first paragraph from H1 to full year 1995/96).
The stock closed down 109 francs at 611, or 15 percent, after having twice been suspended limit-down in the day.
"The profit figures were not bad but when you expect a high rate of growth and and that it will continue for ever, it's a big disappointment," one analyst said.
NatWest downgraded the stock to "lighten" from "accumulate" and revised downward its profit forecasts, a fund manager said.
The fund manager said the brokerage cut its profit forecast for the 1996/97 year to 135 million francs from 150 million, and to 115 million from 159 million for the following year.
Axime is 26.1 percent held by Paribas Affaires Industrielles, a unit of Paribas. It posted turnover for the year to June 30 of 2.1 billion francs.
Royal Dutch/Shell unit Shell Nederland BV said on Tuesday it will raise its retail prices for gasolines in the Netherlands by one cent per litre and of diesel by two cents per litre with effect from August 22.
The moves reflect changes in international product prices and the value of the dollar against the guilder, the company said.
From Thursday the price of premium unleaded gasoline at Shell's self-service stations goes up to 2.05 guilders per litre. The price of premium leaded rises to 2.21 guilders and that of Euro regular unleaded to 2.00 guilders.
The recommended price for diesel goes up to 1.42 guilders per litre, Shell said.
Goldman Sachs & Co said it tentatively priced $30 million of St. Joseph County, Ind., educational facilities revenue bonds, Series 1996, for the University of Notre Dame Du Lac project.
The top yield is 5.80 percent in 2026.
The award is expected Wednesday, August 21, 1996.
Delivery is expected on September 12, 1996.
Goldman, Sachs & Co.
First Chicago Capital Markets, Inc.
Pearson Plc, parent company of Madame Tussauds wax museum, is one of four companies bidding to operate a visitor centre at Britain's historic Stonehenge, according to a published report.
The Tussauds division of Pearson, along with Heritage Projects, the Imagination Group and the York Consortium have been short-listed for the contract to design, build, finance and operate a visitor centre at the 5,000 year old monument, the Guardian reported. English Heritage is responsible for Stonehenge.
Heritage Projects manages the Jorvik Viking centre in York. The Imagination Group has been selected as the festival designer for Britian's Millennium Exhibition in Greenwich and the York Consortium is involved in heritage projects in Britain and overseas. The Stonehenge visitor centre would be located outside and park and would probably include a light railway to take visitors to an observation point a half-mile from the historic site, the newspaper said.
Consumer prices in Surinam rose by 3.8 percent in July against June, compared to a drop of 1.6 in July 1995, the General Bureau of Statistics (ABS) said.
Inflation in July acelerated from a 0.9 percent price rise in June and brought inflation over the first seven months of the year to 5.6 percent.
Inflation in the former Dutch colony in South America has decelerated sharply in the last two years thanks to an economic reform program.
Price rises of 587 percent in 1994 were slashed to 37 percent last year and are on course for single figures in 1996, officials have said.
- Crown Prince Sheikh Saad al-Abdulla al-Sabah promises full support to Lebanon.
- Kuwait National Petroleum Company reports profit fall in fiscal year 1994/95.
- Kuwait lends Lebanon 50 million dinars ($167 million).
- Al-Fujairah Cement Company leads trade at Kuwait Stock Exchange.
- Turkish minister of justice says his visit to Iraq is not aimed against Kuwait or other Gulf countries.
- Parliamentary committee to discuss giving women voting rights at some stage in the future. Women do not have the vote in Kuwait and will not be allowed to cast ballots in the next parliamentary elections, due in October 1996.
total amount listed in real, inflation adjusted terms.
real amounts for 1995 re-calculated using the new methodology.
available in crown terms.
period listed.
average using a 1993 base was 8.6 percent.
index.
foreign currency deposits.
SPT Telecom, grew 20.6 percent versus 21.2 percent.
13.36 percent in June, from 13.13 percent in May, the CNB said.
basis. 1996 results use a different methodology than in 1995.
Jan-May 1996 results are revised from earlier CSU report.
Previously reported figures are in brackets.
10,163 crowns in May.
well.
1996.
completions, it said.
Note. Results measure reserves at the end of each month.
The New Zealand government thumbed its nose at public and political opposition on Tuesday by pressing ahead with the privatisation of a huge plantation forest less than two months before a general election.
It announced the sale of the Forestry Corporation of New Zealand to a consortium of New Zealand companies, Fletcher Challenge and Brierley Investments and China's China International Trust and Investment Corp (CITIC) for NZ$2.0 billion (US$1.38 billion).
The privatisation was New Zealand's second biggest after the 1990 sale of Telecom Corp for more than twice that price.
Finance Minister Bill Birch said he would use the net proceeds of NZ$1.6 billion to repay debt, allowing New Zealand to eliminate net foreign debt for the first time since a 1954 wool boom caused by the Korean War.
But the sale stirred heated opposition, and political commentators said the publicity had been partially responsible for the governing National Party's five-point dip to 37 percent support in a TV3 opinion poll published on Monday.
A separate TVNZ poll on Monday showed more than 60 percent of New Zealanders opposed the privatisation of Forestry Corp, which controls 188,000 hectares (465,000 acres) of prime pine and fir forest in the central North Island.
The sale riled opposition parties. Both the left-wing Alliance Party and the economic nationalist New Zealand First said they would return the consortium's cheque and repurchase the forest if they came to power after the general election on October 12.
But Birch was unrepentant, saying the sale price, exactly NZ$2.026 billion, exceeded the book value and would create new investment and jobs.
"This exceeds the book value of NZ$2.024 billion and is a very good price," he told a briefing, adding that the consortium would invest NZ$260 million to create 700 new jobs over the next seven to eight years.
The Fletcher group outbid U.S. giant Weyerhaeuser and local forestry giant Carter Holt Harvey, which had teamed up with Malaysia's Jaya Tiasa and central North Island Maori tribes who claim the land the forest stands on.
The failure to sell to the Maori-backed consortium may cause further political fallout for the government. A spokesman for the Maori tribes said they would now try to get the land back.
Fletcher Forest chief executive Mike Andrews said his group now controlled a forest estate of 300,000 hectares (741,300 acres).
At least 10 people have died in several days of fighting between rival Kurdish groups in northern Iraq, Iraqi Kurds said on Tuesday.
A Kurdistan Democratic Party (KDP) spokesman in Ankara told Reuters the group's forces killed eight fighters of the rival Patriotic Union of Kurdistan (PUK) on Sunday night near the town of Shaqlawa.
He gave no figures for KDP casualties.
The PUK said in a statement that two civilians were killed in a KDP attack against the settlement of Pirzin, northeast of the main Iraqi Kurdish city of Arbil.
Clashes between the two groups broke out at the weekend, shattering a U.S.-brokered ceasefire sealed last year.
Iraq's Kurds, protected from possible Iraqi attack by Western air power based in Turkey, broke away from Baghdad after the 1991 Gulf War. Fighting between them began in 1994 and about 3,000 people died in clashes until the ceasefire.
The PUK said it had repulsed offensives by the KDP southeast of Arbil and in the remote mountains near the strategic northeastern town of Rawanduz, close to the Iranian border.
The two militias, rivals for decades, have accused each other of cooperating with Baghdad or Tehran in the recent fighting and blamed each other for the renewed clashes.
The Treasury Department said on Tuesday it will auction $24 billion of three- and six-month bills on August 26 to pay down $2.525 billion as $26.528 billion of bills are maturing.
The weekly bill sale will be equally divided between the two maturities. The bills will be issued Aug. 29. The three-month bills mature Nov. 29 and the six-month bills mature Feb. 27, 1997.
The CUSIP number for the three-month bills is 9127943Q5 and for the six-month bills is 9127944A9.
The following list of convertible bonds from Indonesian companies listed overseas is compiled from various securities houses.
BZW= Barclays de Zoete Wedd, ML= Merril Lynch, MS= Morgan Stanley, and SBCW= Swiss Bank Corporation Warburg.
The above mentioned rates are indicative only and may differ from current bid/offer. Share prices were fixed at 08.17 GMT -- Jakarta newsroom +621 384-6364.
The weighted average yield for NZ$75 million of 77-day treasury bills at Tuesday's tender was 9.565 percent vs 9.608 percent for the NZ$75 million of a similar maturity at last week's tender, the Reserve Bank said.
Bids totalled NZ$328 million.
CompuServe Inc., the No. 2 online service, Tuesday reported a $29.6 million fiscal first-quarter loss and said it would cut 150 jobs, or 4 percent of its work force, as part of a $30 million cost-cutting programme.
The loss of $29.6 million, or 32 cents a share, in the fiscal first quarter ended July 31, compared with last year's quarterly profit of $26.8 million, or 36 cents a share.
The company said it expected losses to continue into the second fiscal quarter due to the costs of new product introduction, but predicted improved earnings in the second half of fiscal 1997.
The oldest major online service, second only to America Online Inc., reported total revenues of $208.6 million for the quarter vs. $186.5 million in the previous year's quarter.
CompuServe announced its financial results after markets closed. Its stock dropped 12.5 cents to $13.50 on Nasdaq in earlier trading.
The annual yield on the latest issue of Swiss federal government three-month money market claims is 2.104 percent, down from the previous issue's 2.132 percent, the Swiss National Bank said on Tuesday.
The latest issue, to be paid for on August 22, raised 1,022.15 million Swiss francs and was priced at 99.471 percent.
The previous issue, paid for on August 15, raised 775.10 million and was priced at 99.464 percent.
U.S. Bank of Washington said it won $3.500 million of Lake Oswego, Ore., general obligation street improvement bonds, Series 1996, with a true interest cost of 5.208 percent.
German construction group Philipp Holzmann AG, which last year posted a surprising loss due to writedowns on property holdings, on Tuesday presented a gloomy outlook for 1996 after a difficult first half.
The company said it hoped simply to break even in the full 1996 year, saying that it would have to dissolve some hidden reserves to offset a negative operating result.
"For 1996, the company is aiming to post a break-even result by raising additional income through dissolving hidden reserves," Holzmann said in a statement.
"These additional profits will offset a negative operating result, possible losses from early sales of its properties and writedowns on financial holdings as a result of the streamlining of its portfolio," the statement added.
Holzmann ran into huge financial problems in 1995, posting an unexpected loss of 443 million marks ($297.4 million) which forced it to omit its dividend payout. At the root of its problems were 458 million marks of writedowns on its property portfolio.
Its shares -- which closed today at 375 marks, down from a February high of 685 marks -- were pushed sharply lower by the news, and by the resignation on old age grounds of finance director Michael Westphal soon after the losses were revealed.
Today's forecasts for the full year represent a further worsening of its position.
Only eight weeks ago, Holzmann management board chairman Lothar Mayer told shareholders at the company's annual general meeting that the company would do all it could to report a positive operating result for 1996.
Holzmann said today that general weakness in the construction sector had not helped its position. Weak building activity weighed on the German economy at the turn of the year and improvement has been only slow.
"Business development in the first six months was severely affected by the difficult situation in the construction economy and the unusually harsh winter in mid-Europe," Holzmann said.
Reporting on the first half of this year, Holzmann said its construction output fell by 4.6 percent to 5.9 billion marks.
Orders in hand rose to 15.6 billion marks at mid-year from 13.5 billion at the end of 1995, while new business rose by 11 percent in the period, it said.
Its general building division and transport construction group had negative operating results due to the long winter and losses at some groups in which Holzmann holds stakes.
The service division, which was the main victim of the company's property problems, reported a negative result overall although its operations not connected with the problems were profitable, the statement said.
However, the energy and environmental technology division was able to match its good 1995 result.
Looking ahead to 1997, Holzmann remained pessimistic, predicting a further drop in construction volumes in Germany and Europe. It said it aimed to beat this by gaining strength in Asia and America.
"Output losses must be borne in the short term to enable us to reap better results," it said.
NOTE - Cleanup Corp is a comprehensive domestic products manufacturer.
Last quotes from the International Securities Market Association for benchmark Australian dollar Eurobonds issued by Australian entities.
Sustained buying by mutual funds combined with speculative purchases drove share prices on the Delhi bourse to a higher close, brokers said.
"The recovery was expected as shares had already bottomed out at current levels," said Ramesh Kumar of brokers Rajpaul Chadha and company.
Reliance Industries ended 8.60 rupees higher at 202.25 on fund buying, brokers said.
TISCO closed 3.10 rupeea higher at 184.50 on institutional support, they said.
State Bank of India edged up 3.15 rupees to 268.
TELCO rose six rupees to 462, while ACC firmed 17 rupees to 2,030 on selective buying by Bombay based speculators, brokers said.
ITC closed 5.75 rupees higher at 286.45.
Larsen and Toubro surged 4.25 rupees to 243.50.
VIKING OFFICE PRODUCTS INC.
NOTE - Net income for the quarter included a 2-cent per share charge for start-up and early operating expenses in Germany. Net income for the year included an 11-cent per share charge for start-up and early operating expenses in Viking's new German division.
Prominent government backbencher Max Bradford said on Tuesday he had significant reservations about the sale of Forestry Corporation to a consortium led by Fletcher Challenge Ltd.
Bradford is the ruling National Party's candidate for the seat of Rotorua and has questioned the wisdom of a sale to the Fletcher consortium after reports that it may scale down the Waipa sawmill situated in his electorate.
"The Prime Minister (Jim Bolger) and Finance Minister (Bill Birch) have given me a commitment they will ensure the FCL joint venture will live up to its commitment," Bradford said.
"Therefore, the workforce should have no concern about their jobs."
"I would have to say Fletchers' poor public relations image means they start behind the eight-ball," Bradford said.
"Nor can I say all my concerns, particularly with respect to the development of the best long-term strategy for forestry in New Zealand and a healthy investment programme which leads to jobs and higher incomes with this bid have been satisfied by ministers."
He said Fletcher Forests chief executive Michael Andrews had agreed to put the company's plans to the local communities in a few days.
Fuji Photo Film Co Ltd said on Tuesday that it would launch disposable cameras based on Advanced Photo System technology in the United States as early as September.
"Since our APS products caught on very quickly in Japan when they were introduced in April, we are hoping to see the same thing happen in the United States, the world's largest market," a company spokesman said.
He did not give a sales target for the disposable cameras.
The APS, launched worldwide on April 22, uses silver-based film with a smaller frame size than the standard 35 mm. Konica Corp, Japan's second largest film maker after Fuji Photo, introduced disposable APS cameras in the United States at the end of April, a Konica spokesman said.
He said these had yet to be widely accepted by U.S. consumers.
Smith Barney Inc said it won $6.929 million of Saan Clemente, Calif., street overlay and replacement assessment district no. 95-1, limited obligation improvement bonds, with a true interest cost of 5.1959 percent.
Sun Co Inc it cut the price it will pay for U.S. crude oil by 50 cents a barrel, effective today.
The decrease brings the new price for U.S. benchmark grade West Texas Intermediate to $21.25 a barrel, and West Texas Sour to $18.75 a barrel.
Light Louisiana sweet crude is now $21.00 a barrel, and Oklahoma sweet is $21.25.
Building permit data released on Wednesday were stronger than expected and are marginally negative for bonds and marginally positive for the currency, Bankers Trust New Zealand economists said.
Earlier, Statistics New Zealand said an estimated 1,821 dwelling permits were issued in July, well ahead of BT's estimate of 1,450 to 1,500.
"On today's results, just how quickly the housing and construction sectors are cooling remains uncertain," the economists said.
"There is still uncertainty as to exactly how quickly activity and price pressures in the construction sector are abating. Today's result is consistent with our view of no monetary policy easing in September."
Wang Laboratories Inc said on Tuesday that it would acquire document management technology company  Vantage Technologies Inc.
Terms of the deal were not disclosed.
Wang said it would use Vantage's software to build document management systems compatible with Wang's enterprise work management systems.
The systems will be incorporated into a new line of collaborative work management products to be introduced in 1997.
Tenneco Automotive said Tuesday one of its units had acquired Argentinian exhaust manufacturer Minuzzi as part of its plan to establish exhaust manufacturing operations in Argentina and neighbouring Brazil.
Tenneco did not elaborate on terms of the acquisition of the company, which it described as Argentina's second-largest exhaust manufacturer.
It said it was the first time that its Walker Manufacturing unit had entered the South American market. Tenneco Automotive already operates in Brazil through its Monroe ride control division.
Tenneco said Minuzzi, which provides exhaust products for Volkswagen, Daimler-Benz AG and General Motors Corp., would provide just-in-time products to Ford Motor Co. for its 1997 Escort. The Buenos Aires plant will operate under the Walker Argentina name, it added.
Tenneco said it had also begun exhaust manufacturing at its Monroe do Brasil ride control facility in Mogi Mirim, Brazil.
It said the company, known as Walker Exhaust Systems do Brasil, would supply catalytic converters and exhaust systems for the Volkswagen AB9 and CS5 platforms.
Tenneco said it expected to achieve 200 percent growth in combined Brazil and Argentina revenues by 2000.
NEW YORK, Aug 20 (LPC) - Telecom Argentinga has mandated Banco Santander SA to arrange a loan of about $200 million, banking sources said.
The deal will be structured in two tranches, one syndicated in Argentina and one that will be syndicated internationally, according to bankers. The domestic tranche probably will offer a longer tenor, and the deal is not expected to have financial covenants, a banker added.
Telecom had requested a five-year bullet with no financial covenants and turned down any bids that deviated from that structure, bankers said. Several weeks ago, Telecom narrowed the bids to a four- to five-member short list of banks that accepted the conditions, according to sources.
Bankers also are expecting a mandate for Telefonica de Argentina, sources said.  The company, which originally was looking for a two-year deal, is being offered credits with four- and five-year tenors, sources added.
Telefonica plans to refinance its $150 million deal from early this year, bankers said. Pricing on that loan began at 250 basis points over the London Interbank Offered Rate (LIBOR) and stepped up to LIBOR plus 350 basis points, well above what is expected on the new deal, a banker said.
Albania's first and only national carrier Albanian Airlines denied a newspaper report on Tuesday which claimed the company was suspending flights in September because it was going bankrupt.
"It is absolutely not true that Albanian Airlines is going bankrupt," the company's sales manager Feliks Baci told Reuters. "We are fully booked every day."
Albania's largest-circulation daily Koha Jone alleged in its Tuesday edition that Albania's national carrier could be on the verge of bankruptcy after making losses of $15 million.
"Losses were planned. They do not stop our business," Baci said, adding the group had expected to have several million dollars of losses in the first four years of operation. "This is normal when starting up this kind of company," he said.
Baci declined to give specific figures. He said the company's board would meet on Tuesday and Wednesday to discuss details of the company's future operations.
Albanian Airlines was founded in 1992 as a joint venture between Albania's state tourism agency Albtransport and Austria's Tyrolean Airways. Both companies owned a 50 percent stake in the airline.
Albanian Airlines was subsequently bought for $2 million in 1995 by the Kuwaiti Al Kharafi Group, which paid off all the company's previous debts. Al Kharifi currently owns 95 percent of the company, while the Albanian government retains a five percent stake.
Albanian Airlines makes 12 flights a week to Munich, Bologna, Rome and Istanbul.
The company has about 150 employees.
Privately held Huntsman Corp said it is dropping a $460 million unsolicited bid for Rexene Corp after its two offers were rejected.
Huntsman also said it would not pursue a hostile tender offer for Rexene, a move that some Wall Street takeover traders had anticipated.
Huntsman said it made the decision after Rexene financial adviser Schroder-Wertheim indicated the Rexene board would reject bids substantially above its $15 per share offer.
Huntsman's first bid of $14 per share was rejected by Rexene on July 22. The Salt Lake City-based chemical company then sweetened the offer to $15 per share on August 1, but Rexene rejected that bid as well.
The unsolicited bid also included the assumption of $175 million of debt.
But Huntsman warned that the cyclical chemical industry is already seeing a decline in margins and prices. In spurning the offer, Rexene said shareholder value would be boosted by its strategic investment plan, which includes additional capacity and the expansion of product offerings.
"In my opinion, Rexene's shareholders won't see our offering in the value of Rexene stock for years to come. The shareholders should be very disappointed," Huntsman said.
The move by Huntsman marks the second time in recent months that the nation's largest privately held chemical company, long known for successful acquisitions, failed to win a target company.
Family-owned Huntsman launched a bid for Sterling Chemicals Inc in April, but the effort failed when the target instead opted for a management and investor buyout.
Shares of Rexene, which were trading at 9 before Huntsman launched its bid, tumbled 2 to 10-1/2 in after-hours trading.
The Chicago Board of Trade reported the following stocks of wheat in Toledo, deliverable against CBOT futures. (in 000's bu).
Postal traffic handled at the Paris airports, Charles de Gaulle and Orly last month totalled 11,490 tonnes, an increase of 19.8 percent on July 1995, Aeroports de Paris figures show.
In the first seven months of 1996, postal traffic handled at France's two main air gateways totalled 75,505 tonnes, up 5.3 percent on January-July 1995.
Russia is collecting taxes on domestic and export sales of crude oil but is charging calculated, preliminary tariffs, the State Tax Service said on Tuesday.
"The government has set the average tax on oil sales to 70,000 roubles... But the ministry of finance and the ministry of fuel and energy must work out rates for each individual oil company," said tax service spokesman Alexander Yeryomin.
The government must publish a new order with the ministries' rates, and until then the tax service and customs must charge preliminary, calculated rates, he said by telephone.
"Until the new rates are announced (excise taxes) collected will be based on (average) rates... Later, for some it may turn out to be more and for some it may be less," he said.
Russia in July dropped oil export taxes to meet International Monetary Fund requirements for a $10 billion, three-year credit.
The Fund argued that export tariffs distorted trade and urged Russia to replace the revenue from oil export duties with a general excise duty on all oil sales.
The government made the move, raising the average excise tax to 70,000 as of July 1, but no new breakdown has been announced.
The State Customs Committee announced calculated rates which went into effect August 1.
But the government has not announced whether oil companies, which paid calculated rates in July are responsible retroactively for discrepancies between calculated rates and as yet unpublished official rates.
Yeryomin said the final decision on back payments would be handed down in a government order.
Presently, customs and the state tax service are charging the same calculated rates, they both say.
"The same price is paid to the customs committee for export and to the tax service for domestic sales," said Vladimir Yemelyanov, deputy head of the customs committee's press service.
The calculated rate ranges from 51,649 to 82,536 roubles per tonne of oil, as published by the customs committee, and vary by exporter.
Neither customs nor tax service spokesmen were able to say when the government would issue its new order.
The Indian Civil Aviation Ministry said on Tuesday that it was reviewing government policy regarding equity stakes by foreign companies in domestic airlines.
Currently the government reviews foreign companies' proposals on a case-by-case basis. If approved, a foreign firm can take up to a 40 percent stake in a domestic airline.  Gulf Air and  Kuwait Airways each have stakes in India's Jet Airways.
The Economic Times said on Tuesday that the Civil Aviation Ministry had rejected plans to allow foreign companies to take future equity stakes in domestic airlines.
But a ministry official said the government was still reviewing the policy and no decision had yet been taken regarding future investments by foreign firms.
"The thinking is that foreign equity participation by individuals is welcome," said the official, who asked not to be identified. "Equity participation by foreign airlines may not be permitted. But the matter is still under review."
The official said the Foreign Investment Promotion Board, which reviews foreign investment proposals, recently rejected a proposed joint venture linking Singapore Airlines (SIA) and India's Tata Industries.
It was not clear whether the proposal could be revived.
In February 1995, Singapore Airlines and Tata Industries submitted a proposal to India's Foreign Investment and Promotion Board (FIPB) to launch the joint venture airline.
The Tatas were planning to hold a 60 percent stake with SIA controlling the rest.
Since then the proposal has languished with the government.
Whitbread Plc is one tasty investment among a handful of overseas concerns that have drawn the attention of the manager of Artisan Partners international Mutual Fund, Barron's reported.
In its Monday edition, the financial weekly interviewed Mark Yockey, who identified favorite overseas investment candidates, including U.K.-based Corporate Services Group Plc , Sonae Investimentos-SGPS SA in Portugal, and Mexico's Empresas ICA Sociedad Controladora .
Yockey also picked Finland's Aamulehti Yhtyma Oy , Schibsted A/S , based in Norway, and China's Guangzhou Investment Co Ltd .
The Chicago Board of Trade and Chicago Mercantile Exchange said they were opposed to a Commodity Futures Trading Commission amended rule aimed at enhancing U.S. futures exchanges' audit trails and surveillance.
The CBOT and CME said in separate statements that they already have exchange rules designed to detect fabricated or altered trades.
If the error is illegible or obliterated, a copy of the trading card must be submitted to contract market personnel.
"We really think it is one of the highest forms of micromanagement," a CBOT spokesman said.
"This is a perfect example of how a regulatory body whose function is oversight just can't resist delving into the minutiae and becoming the micromanager of those they regulate," said CME chairman Jack Sandner.
According to a CFTC official, the rule will take effect 60 days after publication in the Federal Register. The rule is expected to be published on either Tuesday or Wednesday.
Last week, the CFTC said a recent re-testing of the CME and CBOT's audit trail systems failed to meet regulatory standards of 90 percent verifiability of times and sequence.
The CFTC said the two exchanges must demonstrate to the commission that they had achieved 90 percent verifiability by January 1, 1997.
Early indications point to a good-quality 1996 U.S. sunflowerseed crop, although total production may lag average levels because fewer acres were planted this spring, analysts said.
"All in all, I'd say it looks like a very good, above-average crop -- at least at this stage," said Duane Berglund, extension agronomist at North Dakota State University in Fargo, N.D.
Germany's Commerzbank AG said it planned to issue 500 million marks of profit-sharing certificates, offering them to investors from September 5 to September 9.
One profit-sharing certificate worth a nominal 1,000 marks corresponded to 80 Commerzbank shares with a nominal value of 50 marks, Commerzbank said.
The issue would pay interest of 7.9 percent annually on July 1. The price will be set near market levels on September 12. The basis for the price will be the 6.25 percent German bund which expires on April 26, 2006 plus 155 basis points.
The Argentine government will send its latest package of economic measures to Congress on Tuesday, said President Carlos Menem's Chief of Staff Alberto Kohan.
"Although we are dedicating all our time to this, it will be difficult for deputies to be discussing this before two or three weeks' time," said Lamberto.
Some analysts fear the measures, with which Economy Minister Roque Fernandez hopes to save $1.2 billion this year and narrow a budget deficit, which he warns could otherwise reach of $6.6 billion, could be watered down by lawmakers.
But Kohan told reporters the executive expected Congress to approve all "the necessary laws to accompany firm action by government."
With the spotlight on government action against the budget deficit, a delegation from the International Monetary Fund was due to arrive in Argentina today.
Argentina overshot the budget deficit target agreed with the IMF for the first half of this year by more than $1.0 billion. Despite the overshoot, the IMF has welcomed the government's tax raising measures, saying they show Argentina's determination in belt-tightening.
Dutch financial services group Internationale Nederlanden Groep NV is expected to announce a leap of up to 32 percent in net profit on Thursday, August 22, with banking outstripping insurance in earnings growth.
Analysts polled by Reuters estimate net profits in the first half of calendar 1996 at between 1.46 billion and 1.56 billion guilders, compared with 1.18 billion a year earlier.
They said the growth rate was largely the result of the 42 percent surge in first quarter profits, when banking activities in emerging markets such as Latin America bounced back from losses in the same period of 1995.
"In the second quarter they faced a far more difficult comparison base, particularly on the banking side," said Heinie Hakker at BZW Nederland.
Analysts see profits before tax from banking as high as 1.09 billion guilders, a gain of 46 percent from the first half of 1995, with most of this increase coming in the first quarter.
Interim pre-tax insurance profits are forecast to have risen by between 11 and 17 percent to between 1.10 billion and 1.16 billion.
Analysts were divided however over whether Barings, the British merchant bank bought for 1.7 billion guilders in March 1995, would be profitable after interest charges.
Kempen and Co analyst Hans Pluijgers said ING's banking activities benefitted from many of the same factors as rival ABN AMRO's, such as buoyant financial markets.
But he added: "The insurance activities are having a dampening effect on the result."
Pluijgers said he would be interested in whether ING made more provisions for future costs, including losses on aircraft leasing, after making no such allowances in the first quarter.
Bart van der Feen de Lille of IRIS Research said ING's trading and commission income would have grown strongly but not as fast as at ABN AMRO, which has a greater relative exposure to equities markets and less to bond markets than ING.
ABN AMRO last week posted a 36 percent jump in interim net profit at 1.7 billion guilders, helped by booming share markets which boosted trading income and fees from share offerings.
CS First Boston analyst Kishore Banger said ING's first quarter profits were exceptional because of banking but he saw insurance providing a solid increase in the second quarter.
He also expected double digit growth in insurance profits in the first six months of 1996.
"Where's there's scope for a surprise (in the half year), it's on the banking side," Banger added.
Canadian bonds closed firmer and outperformed their U.S. counterparts on Tuesday on increased expectations that the Bank of Canada could soon cut interest rates, analysts said.
"The T-bill market got a bid and it's just extended its way up the curve," said one Toronto dealer. "The money market is rallying and the Bank of Canada is not getting in the way of it."
The spread between the benchmark bonds narrowed to 93 basis points from 96 basis points at the close of trading on Monday.
Both Canadian and U.S. bond markets were focused on the meeting today of the U.S. Federal Reserve's rate-setting Federal Open Market Committee. As expected, the FOMC left U.S. interest rates unchanged.
"The front end is very bullish. Traders pretty much expect another rate cut from the Bank of Canada," said Sheldon Dong, manager of fixed-income research with Midland Walwyn Capital Inc.
On Wednesday, the Government of Canada will auction C$2.7 billion of 7.0 percent bonds due September 1, 2001.
In other prices, the 7.0 percent of 2006 rose C$0.29 to C$98.33 to yield 7.231 percent. The U.S. 10-year benchmark traded unchanged to yield 6.58 percent.
The three-month cash bill traded at 4.05 percent against the U.S. three-month bill at 5.17 percent.
Netscape Communications Corp's lead antitrust lawyer has written to the U.S. Department of Justice to urge that immediate action be taken against Microsoft Corp for what Netscape called "far-reaching anti-competitive behavior."
The letter, dated August 12 and made available to Reuters Tuesday, is a further escalation of a battle of words between the two companies that began earlier this month as the rivals prepared to issue new versions of Internet browser software.
The eight-page letter accuses Microsoft of having made written offers to computer makers, Internet service providers (ISPs), systems integrators and large corporations providing for "either clandestine side payments, discounts on the Microsoft desktop operating system (Windows) or payments in the form of 'real estate' on the Windows 95 screen."
The Netscape counsel said these inducements were made on the condition that the parties involved would "make competitors' browsers far less accessible to users than Microsoft's own browser."
The legal clash comes at a critical point as both Netscape and Microsoft are introducing new versions of their respective browsers, Netscape Navigator and Microsoft Internet Explorer.
Netscape, which pioneered browser technology and surged on to the public stock market with a stellar initial public offering in August 1995, holds the lead with an estimated 80 percent or more of the worldwide browser market.
The software, known as Internet Explorer 3.0, was formally introduced just a week ago. On Monday, Netscape launched the latest version of its own Navigator software.
Both companies have linked up with content providers to offer free trial subscriptions as a way of promoting their browsers. Analysts have said that Microsoft, which has thrown its marketing and financial clout into Internet products, has leveled the playing field with its latest software.
Reback, a Silicon Valley lawyer known for spearheading past legal tussles with the Redmond, Wash.-based software company, said the alleged practices went far beyond those that had been addressed in a consent decree agreed by Microsoft and the Justice Department two years ago.
"Microsoft's behavior is, if anything, more anti-competitive and pernicious than the conduct addressed specifically in the decree," Reback wrote in the letter.
Reback urged the Department of Justice to investigate what Netscape believes was illegal conduct by Microsoft, saying the department could do so swiftly. He said many small Internet companies "now face the threat of elimination from the market by reason of Microsoft's illegal conduct."
The attorney also suggested the department's antitrust division return the matter to the Federal Trade Commission, which he said has taken a recent interest in the subject.
"In any event, we are requesting immediate attention," he said. "Time is of the essence. We know that the antitrust division has an open file with respect to Microsoft."
The Central Reserve Bank of Peru said it would not hold its customary auction of Certificates of Deposit today.
It gave no reason for the cancellation.
With demand for nickel wavering and stocks building, producers have little choice but to attack costs, nickel producer QNI Ltd said on Tuesday.
Nickel prices are down about 25 percent in the last 12 months, reflecting a slow-down in consumption by the all-important stainless steel sector, Wyn Davies, managing director of QNI said in an interview.
"The markets will continue to be volatile and that's something one learns to accept," Davies said.
Davies said he did not fully understand the reason why an abundance of potential new players wanted to get into nickel.
Earlier on Tuesday, QNI reported a 20 percent fall in net profit to A$85.89 million in the 1996/97 year ended June 30 versus the previous year.
The decline was linked in part to a weaker nickel price.
"At just over US$3.00 a pound, a considerable number of existing nickel producers are not making much money," he said.
"But it doesn't seem to have dented the interest of a lot of would-be players."
More than half-dozen new nickel projects are proposed in Australia and an international group is aiming to restart the long-idled Nonoc refining and mining complex in the Philippines.
A bright spot in the market for those already in the market has been soaring demand in parts of Asia, where regional growth of as much as 15 percent far-outruns historical overall growth rates of closer to three percent, Davies said.
However, some 35,000 tonnes of nickel sitting in London Metal Exchange warehouses and possibly a further 30,00 tonnes stockpiled off-LME warrant is weighing on the market, he said.
Also, "There's pretty much in the hands of consumers," he said.  "We're not carrying much stock."
Smart producers of nickel were looking to knock down their operating costs, Davies said.
It's certainly something we're putting alot of effort into." Still, market conditions aren't as bad as they were in 1992 and 1993, when Russian-produced nickel was flooding into western markets, Davies said. Better transparency of the Russian industry now exists, he said. "I think we all know a lot better what's going on in Russia these days, Davies said.
While metal continues to leak out Russia, most comes out from new prodcution and not stockpiles, Davies said.
Midwest direct cash hog prices Wednesday were expected to open $0.50 to $1.00 per cwt lower, pressured by light packer demand and increased marketings, livestock dealers said.
Tops in Iowa and Minnesota on hogs delivered to plants may range from $59.00 to $59.50 and Illinois hogs may have a top of $58.50 to $59.00 at the plant.
Larger-than-expected interior hog receipts weighed on cash hog prices as packers started resisting unprofitable operating margins by dropping bids, they said.
Indiana buyers said prices Wednesday may fall $1.00, to a top of $57.50 at plants, after Tuesday's $0.50 to $1.50 drop.
"Everybody moved hogs in this part of the country," one Indiana hog buyer said.
Hog prices Wednesday also were expected to be hit by projections for lower pork values as retailers shift to beef from pork after last week's steep drop in wholesale beef prices, sources said.
Nikko Research Center Ltd has assigned Penta-Ocean Construction Co Ltd a "2" rating, Nikko brokers said on Tuesday.
In its three-grade rating system, the research institute assigns a "2" rating to issues whose values it sees moving within 10 percentage points in either direction of the key 225-share Nikkei average over the next six months.
Gateway 2000 Inc said on Tuesday that it would make its Destination personal computers available through certain retail stores.
The computer, which combines the features of a big-screen television with those of a home compter, will start at $3,999, and be available at Nobody Beats The Wiz stores on the East Coast this week and CompUSA Inc stores throughout the United States by mid-September.
The Pentium-processor based system offers video images superior to those of television, Gateway said.
Both computer and television functions are controlled through a touchpad-equiped wireless keyboard and a wireless Field Mouse remote control/mouse.
The system is compatible with consumer electronics components such as VCRs, stereo systems, and laser disc players, and can accept video feeds from cable television systems, traditional antennas, or other video devices. Audio signals from the Destination system can be channeled through home stereo systems to offer surround sound capability.
NOTE: 1995 12 months net includes gain from patent settlement of $169,496.
"It is expected that Boris Yeltsin will return to Moscow this week where he will hold a series of meetings with members of the government," a spokesman said. He gave no further details.
Yeltsin, 65, has not made any public appearances since his inauguration ceremony on August 9. Aides say he suffered "colossal weariness" after his re-election campaign, but they deny he has suffered new heart trouble.
The president had been expected to start a holiday outside Moscow and Valdai, about 350 km (220 miles) northwest of the capital, had been mentioned by aides as a possible destination.
Interfax news agency quoted presidential press secretary Sergei Yastrzhembsky as saying Yeltsin would fly to Valdai "to see whether it is possible to spend a routine holiday there".
China is urging its colour television producers to end a price war, saying it is hurting the domestic industry and helping foreign brands, the Economic Daily said on Tuesday.
The price war -- touched off in March by industry giant Sichuan Changhong Electric Appliances Co ltd -- was an attempt to counter rampant smuggling of foreign TVs and rising domestic stockpiles, Liu Jianfeng, vice minister of the Ministry of Electronics Industry was quoted as saying.
Smuggling has been a major problem, allowing many vendors to avoid duties and making foreign brands very competitive compared to domestic television sets.
The price slashing has cut into earnings of domestic makers. Major companies in the domestic television market include Shenzhen Konka Electronics (Group) Co Ltd and Hong Kong-listed Nanjing Panda Electronics Co Ltd.
The newspaper did not list any specific measures to be taken but it pointed to high-level government concern over the impact on the domestic industry.
Television makers should upgrade their technology and strengthen management instead of slashing prices to promote sales, Liu said.
The price cuts were putting increasing pressure on domestic producers and some small-scale firms had already been forced out of business, it said.
"The price cuts will cause domestic producers to kill each other off, which is harmful to both producers and the state," it quoted Liu as saying.
Foreign firms that had set up joint ventures in China using high technology and cheap labour would benefit and capture a larger market share, it said.
Foreign joint ventures, however, say they too are victims of the smuggling as they are finding it hard to compete with the illegally imported products.
Smuggled and legally imported sets accounted for 40 percent of the 13.6 million colour televisions sold in China in 1995, official figures show. Foreign brands produced in China had a 24 percent market share and domestic brands 36 percent.
Columbia/HCA Healthcare Corp's proposed $299.5 million acquisition of most of Blue Cross & Blue Shield of Ohio cleared a hurdle Tuesday when the health insurer's policyholders approved the deal at a special meeting, Blue Cross said.
About 60 protestors outside the meeting outnumbered the 38 who attended it. Most proxies were mailed in advance of the meeting, a Blue Cross spokesman said.
Blue Cross and Columbia have said the acquisition will reduce health care costs and improve care.
"This could be a role model for the entire country," Blue Cross chairman and chief executive officer John Burry said at the meeting. "This an opportunity to get doctors, hospitals and insurers to work together for the benefit of the patient."
Questions about the deal have been raised by consumer activists, some policyholders, the Ohio Attorney General, the national Blue Cross and Blue Shield Association and others.
Last week, Congressman Sherrod Brown (Democrat-Ohio) said he asked the Federal Trade Commission to review the proposal.
Italian debt markets tumbled through support at the close as political worries and chart points collaborated to undermine them.
"There are still political worries concerning the market, particularly on the budget in the autumn," said one trader referring to signs on Monday from the hard-left that it was limbering up for confrontation over Rome's privatisation and 1997 budget plans when parliament returns from its summer break.
Dealers said the 115.81 break triggered steeper losses.
The February 2006 Btp was 12 basis points lower at 101.03 while the spread over the 10-year benchmark Bund inched out on the day to 329 basis points.
Concern over the outlook for autumn for the Italian government is a nagging factor ready to undermine Italian assets but for the moment the market's main attention is on today's Federal Open Market Committee meeting.
On the charts, traders said any move by the Btp future to the 116.00 area and above would see healthy selling interest. Others said the mood was bearish and if the future ended the week below 115.95 "then it's definitely on a downtrend."
CBOT soybean futures closed higher on mounting concerns about potential cuts in 1996 U.S. soybean production, traders said.
"The crop is late and the crop is looking smaller plus there was a little squeeze on August," said Ron Kucha of O'Connor and Co.
Crop scouts on the Professional Farmers of America crop tour of the U.S. Midwest this week confirmed that the crop was well behind normal maturity paces in the eastern growing region. "Bean yields (prospects) look disappointing on the first day of the tour," a trader said.
USDA Monday said the U.S. crop as of Sunday was 56 percent good to excellent, down from 58 in that category the previous week. Also, 63 percent of the crop was setting pods, behind the 69 pace a year ago and the 74 percent average pace.
Gains in soybean futures were limited by a shift in weather patterns in the U.S. Midwest.
Meteorologists said weather patterns now suggest warm weather will remain in the U.S. Midwest through next week, rather than be displaced by a cold system as indicated Monday.
Soybeans closed 1-1/2 to 9-1/4 cents per bushel higher, with August up 9-1/4 at $8.24 a bushel.
Nearby August soybeans were strong relative to other months on short covering and position squaring before expiration of that contract slated for 1201 Wednesday.
"It was primarily shorts getting out of the August before expiration," a trader said. "Some commercials were rolling out of the August and there's been zero deliveries of beans and meal."
Volume was estimated at 43,000, down from 52,053 Monday.
In the soybean options pit Refco Inc bought 600 November $7.25 puts at 10 cents and bought 200 November $7.00 puts at 4-1/2 cents. In late dealings Tenco Inc sold 400 September $8.00 calls at 5-6-1/2 cents, traders said.
Soybean options volume was estimated at 22,000, down from 26,160 Monday.
President Boris Yeltsin headed for the picturesque lakeland of Valdai in northwestern Russia on Tuesday for a two-day break outside Moscow, the presidential press service said.
It said that the 65-year-old Kremlin leader, whose virtual disappearance from public view in late June triggered rumours about his health, would consider whether it was a good enough place to spend the rest of his planned vacation.
"It is expected that Boris Yeltsin will return to Moscow this week where he will hold a series of meetings with members of the government," a spokesman said.
Yeltsin, who suffered two heart attacks last year, has made only one public appearence since June 26, briefly turning up at his inauguration ceremony on August 9.
Aides say he suffered "colossal weariness" after his re-election campaign, but they deny he has suffered new heart trouble.
Yeltsin's press secretary, Sergei Yastrzhembsky, on Monday denied a report by the U.S. magazine Time which said that Yeltsin had suffered from heart problems again in the second half of June.
Time said that, according to an official Kremlin medical advisory it had obtained, the president needed round-the-clock monitoring and the Kremlin was considering transferring him to a Swiss clinic for a bypass operation.
"This information is part of a series of rumours and conjectures concerning the state of the president's health," Yastrzhembsky told a news briefing.
He said that the president, whom he had met recently, has been doing paperwork every day at a residence near Moscow.
Yeltsin, who usually spends vacations at the Black Sea resort of Sochi, had been expected to start a holiday outside Moscow after his inauguration.
Valdai, about 350 km (220 miles) northwest of the capital, had been mentioned by aides as a possible destination.
The area, a mixture of thick woods and hundreds of lakes where Russia's River Volga originates, is a long-time resort area popular for mild climate and beautiful nature.
Australian Finance Minister John Fahey said on a Wednesday that the government would monitor the private health system to ensure it provided services commensurate with costs following the budget's introduction of incentives for private health insurance.
Answering questions following an address to a New South Wales Chamber of Commerce function in Sydney, Fahey said the incentives were not a gift to the private health industry.
"I think it is a huge boost for our hospital system - there is very much a need for those that can afford to get into the private system," he said.
The government announced tax incentives worth about A$500 million a year to encourage people to take out private health insurance and to wean rich people off the public Medicare health system.
Movie Star Inc said on Tuesday it has reached a settlement of all outstanding leasehold obligations with the landlord at its New York headquarters.
The settlement will have no material impact on Movie Star's present financial condition, the company said.
Movie Star said it agreed to pay the landlord, Madison Accessories Co, $800,000 for past and future rent obligations.
During the second quarter of fiscal 1996, Movie Star established a $900,000 reserve on its balance sheet to cover costs related to its leasehold obligations, it said. The company said it had also written off $270,000 in leasehold improvements.
The dispute over rent obligations developed last year after the company consolidated its corporate offices, Movie Star said.
The Bank of Portugal said there was no demand at its offer to drain money market liquidity with six-day certificates at a fixed rate of 6.80 percent.
Rauscher Pierce Refsnes said it priced $6.4 million of Azle, Texas, general obligation bonds, with a top yield of 5.82 percent in 2025.
The bonds are FGIC insured and rated Aaa/Baa by Moody's Investors Service and AAA/BBB-plus by Standard & Poor's Corp.
The bonds are dated 8/1/1996 and due 8/15/1999 through 2012 and due in 2017 and 2025.
The first coupon is 2/15/1997.
The bonds are callable 8/15/1997.
After arriving late to the Internet party, computer software giant Microsoft Corp has crafted a strategy that poses a serious threat to rival Netscape Communications Corp.
Because Microsoft is giving away its browser, the Redmond, Wash.-based company likely will boost its market share from less than 10 percent to as much as 40 percent by mid-1997, according to one estimate.
"Netscape doesn't own the operating system, so it will be very difficult for them to counter that," said Michael Wallace of UBS Secrurities.
Microsoft also has integrated Internet server software for no additional cost into its high-end Windows NT operating system, taking aim at another key Netscape market.
While the Internet browser market itself is not expected to generate significant revenue, it is a crucial battleground because the browser is seen as the next-generation "front end" for the operating system.
"Whoever dominates the browser market will determine the direction of the Internet," Wallace said.
"I don't think Netscape is going to do very well in the long run with Bill Gates waking up every morning thinking, 'How can I get Netscape today?'" said Adam Schoenfeld or research firm Jupiter Communications.
"As other companies have painfully learned, when Gates is out to get you he's serious," Schoenfeld said.
And Netscape has a chance to beat its much-larger rival in areas not dominated by Microsoft products, such as television set-top boxes, video game devices and stripped-down "network computers" being backed by Oracle Corp and other Microsoft rivals.
But analysts say Netscape faces a tough battle with broad ramifications for the software industry.
Lemmons said that despite Microsoft's near-monopoly in key areas of desktop computing software, the strategy of giving away Internet software appears to be legal, and the company has withstood years of antitrust scrutiny.
Software developers and industry executives will be watching closely as the battle between Microsoft and Netscape continues to heat up over the coming year, Schoenfeld said.
"The question for any innovative software company is what can you do that Microsoft can't also do," he said.
"The damning thing is Microsoft doesn't even have to do it as well -- they just have to do it and leverage their desktop control," Schoenfeld said. "That looms over the entire industry."
NOTE - Nishikawa Keisoku Co Ltd is the full company name.
-- Donaldson Lufkin & Jenrette downgraded Sun International Hotels Ltd to outperform from buy, a market source said.
-- The stock closed Monday at 51-3/4.
Brent/Dubai paper talk pushed the spread wider on Tuesday in the aftermath of a further Brent rally on the International Petroleum Exchange (IPE) in London.
Traders assessed the Brent/Dubai for October out at $1.90/$2.00 per barrel compared with a day-earlier $1.70/$1.90.
Meanwhile, intermonth Dubai spreads were assessed as steady with October/November and November/December both at 28-32 cents compared with a day-earlier October/November at 30-32 cents and November/December at 29-33 cents.
Paper Tapis for September was bid at $20.05 per barrel, up 10/15 cents from a day-earlier, which some traders said lagged the Brent hike.
The surprise intervention by Malaysia's central bank in the domestic money market on Tuesday is a clear indication its tight monetary policy will continue, dealers and analysts said.
Bank Negara's intervention, the first in nearly three months, suggested it was not about to allow interest rates to fall below the bank's desired level, they said.
"Bank Negara has sent a signal to the market that it is not yet willing to loosen monetary policy," said Desmond Supple, economist with research firm I.D.E.A in Singapore.
Bank Negara tendered for a one-month deposit in the money market, accepting bids in the 6.95 to 7.05 percent range against 6.95 percent at its last intervention.
The borrowing was part of the central bank's open market operations. Bank Negara intervenes in the local interbank market to keep a check on liquidity or set interest rates as part of its efforts to fight inflation.
Many money dealers said Tuesday's move was surprising as they were beginning to get used to non-interference by the central bank and were taking on long-term loan commitments.
"We had expected the central bank to sit out for some more time," a dealer with a local bank said.
He said it was widely believed the central bank was waiting for the turbulence in Thai and Indonesian financial markets, which was attracting funds to Malaysia, to pass before taking action.
Rates have fallen sharply in the last four to six weeks -- the benchmark three-month interbank had declined to 7.15 percent from a peak of 7.50.
"The rates were threatening to go below Bank Negara's support level," another money market dealer said.
The reaction to Bank Negara's intervention was swift. Within minutes, short-term rates shot up by 10-20 basis points.
The one-month interbank rate rose to 7.10/15 percent from 7.00/05 before the intervention, one-week to 6.80/00 percent from 6.50/60 and two-week to 6.90/00 against 6.60/70.
The overnight rate opened at 7.5 percent against its closing level of 6.00/10 on Monday, the dealers said.
They said rates could rise further in the near term if the volume of funds taken in by Bank Negara was large. Bank Negara does not reveal how much money it borrows at these tenders.
"Going by the rates at which it has taken money, it looks like (Negara) has cleaned out the market. It has covered the entire range in which one-month was being traded," said the head of money dealing at a foreign bank.
Many dealers said they expected Bank Negara to follow up by intervening in the market again in the next few days.
"If that happens, the market will start believing that high interest rates are here to stay for some time," the foreign bank dealer said.
Rising domestic and foreign palm oil demand will mostly offset higher Malaysian output which seasonally peaks in August/September and will reduce stocks in the country, the independent newsletter Oil World said.
It said end-Septmeber stocks should be considerably below Oil World's June 14 forecast of 900,000 tonnes, but did not give a precise forecast.
Malaysia's Palm Oil Registration and Licensing Authority (PORLA) last week put end-July stocks at 754,634 tonnes versus trade views of 790,000-800,000 tonnes amid high demand and reduced output.
The recovery in import demand over the last two months was attributed to attractive palm oil prices versus soya, rape and other oils and fats, along with renewed Chinese buying.
Soft oilseeds were in short supply and global crushings had slowed down in the third quarter, making the world market more dependent on palm oil.
Note:The results were unaudited. PT Pan Indonesia Bank, a member of the widely-diversified conglomerate Panin Group, is a medium-sized bank.
Burma's military government has imposed a seven-year prison sentence on a personal assistant to democracy leader Aung San Suu Kyi and two other party members, National League for Democracy (NLD) sources said on Tuesday.
"U Win Htein and two other NLD members were sentenced on August 16 to seven years imprisonment each," an NLD source told Reuters. "They were charged for taking part in a video conspiracy fabricating the poor situation of the farmers.
He said the identity of the other two was not known nor was it known what section they were sentenced under, but said he thought it was likely under a sweeping Emergency Powers Act.
Win Htein, Suu Kyi's assistant was one of more than 250 NLD members arrested by the State Law and Order Restoration Council (SLORC) in a crackdown on democracy politicians ahead of a May 26 party congress at Suu Kyi's house.
Aye Win, a relative and personal assistant to NLD leader Su Kyi, was also arrested in the crackdown. His family told Reuters on Tuesday he had not yet been sentenced.
Most of the NLD politicians arrested by the SLORC were released after the May 26-28 party meeting took place. The government said at the time the arrests were made to prevent "anarchy" and unrest from the meeting.
But a handful of the NLD members, including Win Htein, remained in custody and were sent to Rangoon's Insein Prison.
The annualised yield on Moldova's 28-day Treasury bills fell to 26.60 percent at an auction on Tuesday from 29.31 percent at the previous auction last Tuesday, a National Bank official said.
The yield on the country's 91-day T-bills rose to 32.05 percent annual from 31.12 percent at the previous auction last Tuesday, he told Reuters.
The yield on 182 T-bills fell to 38.20 percent annual from 39.63 percent at the previous auction on July 23.
The hunt for two kidnapped young girls in Belgium's deadly child sex scandal went international on Tuesday with police in several nations being drawn into the expanding search.
"We are at the moment establishing contact with police in other countries via the services of Interpol," Major Jean-Marie Boudin, spokesman for the Belgian Gendarmerie's special missing children squad, told Reuters. "This process began today."
He declined to specify which countries had been contacted. The media spotlight has been on the Czech Republic, Germany, the Netherlands and France.
"The investigation is evolving. We are making the first contacts now. There are no results yet," Boudin said.
He confirmed that the prime focus of the investigation was on finding An Marchal and Eefje Lambrecks, abducted from Ostend in August 1995 by convicted child rapist, 39-year-old father of three Marc Dutroux.
But Boudin said the search included Nathalie Geijsbregts who was 10 years old when she disappeared from the town of Berthem in February 1991.
"We are looking at all the dossiers connected with this affair, An and Eefje and Nathalie as well as a number of others," he said.
At least 15 children have disappeared in Belgium in the past six years. Seven have now been found dead, six are still missing and only two have so far been rescued.
British police said their Belgian counterparts had asked for the help of John Bennett, the officer who dealt with the unmasking of Fred and Rosemary West in Britain's "House of Horrors" mass murder investigation.
Dutroux was formally charged on Friday with abduction and illegal imprisonment of children after police raided a house he owned in Charleroi and rescued Laetitia Delhez and Sabine Dardenne from a makeshift concrete dungeon.
Both girls had been sexually abused.
Michel Lelievre was charged with same offence. Michelle Martin, Dutroux' second wife, has been charged as an accomplice.
Jean-Michel Nihoul was charged on Tuesday with criminal association.
Dutroux led police on Saturday to the bodies of eight-year-olds Julie Lejeune and Melissa Russo -- kidnapped in June 1995 and starved to death in late February or early March.
Dutroux denied responsibility for the deaths on the grounds that at the time he was serving four months in jail for theft. But he did admit having paid Lelievre and another accomplice, Bernard Weinstein, 40,000 francs ($1,300) for the girls.
He also admitted killing Weinstein for letting the girls die. His body was found with the girls.
Dutroux, released 10 years early in 1992 from a 13-year sentence for multiple rape and child abuse, also told police he had abducted Marchal and Lambrecks.
Their fate remains unknown, but there has been speculation they were sold into prostitution in the Czech Republic. Interpol in Prague said there was no trace of the girls on Czech soil.
Child rights lawyer Michele Hirsch told Reuters the Belgian case was symptomatic of a global sickness.
"Whether you talk about paedophilia, prostitution, pornography or the traffic in human organs, people are increasingly being treated as a primary resource," she said. "It is a a global problem."
A "tired but apparently unharmed" Japanese electronics executive was freed by kidnappers on Monday after they received $2 million in unmarked $100 bills, government officials said.
After nine days in captivity, Mamoru Konno, president of a U.S. subsidiary of Japan's Sanyo Electric Co., was found in the basement of an unoccupied building in this northern Mexican city just before 4 a.m. local time.
Jose Luis Anaya Bautista, State Attorney General of Baja California, told a news conference the end of the abduction was a two-day ordeal in which the ransom was handed over with no apparent guarantee Konno would be released.
He said on Saturday night an officer of Mexico's State Judicial Police drove a Sanyo company vehicle to the La Jolla section of Tijuana where he met two of the alleged kidnappers and handed over an envelope containing $2 million in unmarked $100 bills.
At 10 p.m. on Monday night authorities received a call from the kidnappers directing them to an area in the La Mesa district of Tijuana where they found Konno "tired but apparently unharmed" in the basement of a disused building, he said.
Anaya said police were looking for six suspects, all believed to be Mexican nationals.
"I was pleased to be able to talk to Mr. Konno and to tell him how happy we are to have him back with us safe and sound," Anaya said. "He was very grateful to us for having helped him."
Konno was seized on Aug. 10 as he was traveling home to San Diego from a company party and baseball game in Tijuana.
He was the first high-ranking foreign executive kidnapped in Mexico in recent years and his abduction fueled fears that criminals may target some of the thousands of foreign executives who work in factories along the Mexican-U.S. border.
Sanyo North America President Moto Haru Iue said: "I express my sincere appreciation for all who helped bring about (Konno's) safe return. Mr. Konno is in good health and relieved it's over."
But underscoring some of the doubts that have emerged since the kidnapping about the safety of working in Mexico, he said he did not know if Konno would return to work at the Tijuana plant. "We will have to consider security first," he said.
Kidnappings are on the rise in Mexico, fueled partly by the December 1994 peso crisis and the subsequent deep recession, which threw more than a million people out of work. Experts say amateur and professional criminal gangs, former and current policemen and leftist rebels of the self-styled Popular Revolutionary Army are among the main suspects.
Konno's release will remove a cloud over the visit to Mexico, set to begin on Tuesday, by Japanese Prime Minister Ryutaro Hashimoto. Hashimoto will visit three other countries during a 10-day tour of Latin America.
During the ordeal, Mexican police in Baja California had said they were not involved in any efforts to free Konno, saying they had been officially notified by Sanyo of his abduction.
Brazilian coffee exporters are to hold their monthly meeting with top government coffee officials on August 23 to discuss the progress of overseas sales, coffee export officials said.
Under the plan, Brazil should ship nine million 60-kg bags between July and December this year. In July, exports totalled 1.12 million bags, the first time shipments had exceeded the one million bag level since September 1995.
August figures are already expected to be higher than July, said Oswaldo Aranha, president of the Brazilian Federation of Coffee Exporters (FEBEC).
Both FEBEC's Aranha and Jorge Esteve, president of the Brazilian Association of Coffee Exporters (Abecafe) welcomed a proposal to scrap the ICMS export tax which currently stands at 13 percent for coffee.
"This is very much what FEBEC has been suggesting for some time. It means Brazilian coffee will be more competitive and there will be a better return for the producer," Aranha said.
Last week Brazil's Planning Minister Antonio Kandir reached an agreement with state governments to eliminate the tax.
Today the Lower House will vote on a motion that the bill be given priority treatment which could mean it be put to the vote as early as tomorrow.
But even if passed by the Lower House and the Senate, it still would not take effect until the begininng of next year, traders said.
Poland's Consumer Federation has issued four court writs against Coca-Cola's local unit seeking payment on behalf of people who say they won prizes in a promotion this year, PAP news agency said on Tuesday.
In the promotion launched by Coca-Cola Poland Services Sp. z.o.o., customers who submitted two bottle tops printed on the inside with matching dates and venues for past Olympic Games, plus the same sum of money, could win cash prizes.
Four consumers say the firm did not pay out when they submitted such matching caps and have sought the consumer group's support, the Polish news agency reported.
The demands for payment before the Warsaw provincial court total 320,000 zlotys ($116,000), it added.
Coca-Cola spokesman Marcin Barcz told Reuters the claims arose because on some caps the number eight had been badly printed and could be taken to look like a six, arousing some false hopes.
The firm had offered such disappointed contestants the chance to take part in an additional supplementary lottery for a compensation prize, but not all had accepted, he said.
"This happened because a machine did not print a relatively small proportion of these caps entirely precisely," Barcz said.
All the winning tops were registered with a notary before the January to May "Reach for Gold" promotion and the victors were clearly identifiable despite the printing fault, he added.
Barcz said that the company, a wholly-owned unit of the Coca-Cola Co, would use similar contests in the future.
The promotion aroused wide interest, with some people advertising in local newspapers in other parts of Poland for matching caps, so as to team up and split the prizes.
Coca-Cola said in June that more than 600 people won sums ranging from 100 zlotys to the two main prizes of 150,000 zlotys, with payouts totalling 800,000 zlotys.
The following are additions and deletions to the takeovers and mergers list for the week beginning August 19, as provided by the Takeover Panel.
 .................CURRENT TAKEOVERS AND MERGERS................
Poultry producer WLR Foods Inc said Tuesday it had implemented cost-cutting initiatives that should save the company $20 million on an annualized basis.
A company spokeswoman said the actions included reducing the WLR's workforce to about 8,500 currently from 9,200 in January through attrition and job consolidation.
"I am pleased that on an annualized basis we initiated $20 million in permanent cost reductions before year-end which are already beginning to impact our bottom line," Chief Executive James Keeler said in WLR's fourth-quarter earnings release.
He said prices for WLR products will continue to be under pressure until oversupplies of beef slow. He said beef producers are reacting to high grain prices by liquidating their herds.
"This has flooded an already competitive market with lower-priced beef and is predicted to do so at least through the winter, reducing the comparative advantage enjoyed by poultry," he said.
WLR reported a fourth-quarter loss of $6.8 million, or $0.38 per share, after higher grain costs, compared to a profit of $807,000, or $0.05 per share, a year earlier.
Analysts' consensus estimate was a loss of $0.08 per share for the fourth quarter, ended June 29, according to First Call.
WLR fell 3/8 to 11-1/2 in morning trade.
The reference price of Ecuador's crude rose to an average $18.85 per barrel on August 14, up from the $18.65 registered the day before, a spokesman for the state-run Petroecuador oil company said Tuesday.
The price is tied to the Alaska North Slope (USG) and Oman crude prices, with different discounts payable in 30 days.
The price average in July was 17.46 per barrel, while in July 1995 was $14.13 per barrel.
Ecuador withdrew from the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries (OPEC) in December 1992.
NOTE - Danto Corp is a manufacturer of different types of tiles.
Taiwan's president has urged the central bank to study how to control capital outflows to China in a further bid to limit the island's economic exposure on its main rival's turf, a local newspaper said on Tuesday.
President Lee Teng-hui, in a meeting on Monday, also pressed central bank governor Sheu Yuan-dong to find ways to better manage indirect investment by Taiwanese banks in China, the Economic Daily News reported.
President Lee's office and a central bank spokesperson declined to comment on the reported meeting, which the newspaper described as a call by Lee for a review of the central bank's policy toward China.
Speculation that Taipei might change its China policies has mounted since Lee cautioned on August 14 that the island needed to avoid over-dependence on the mainland for investment.
Economics Minister Wang Chih-kang said on Sunday the government would maintain a "consistent" policy on mainland investments and not impose additional restrictions.
Some 30,000 Taiwan firms have poured more than US$20 billion into China since the late 1980s, channeling capital indirectly through Hong Kong and other centres to comply with a nearly five-decade-old ban on direct links with communist China.
Taiwan and China have been arch rivals since a civil war separated them in 1949.
China regards Taiwan as a renegade province and threatens to recover the island by force if it seeks independence.
Pacific Bell, a unit of Pacific Telesis Group, said it had been unable to negotiate an agreement with AT&T Corp to interconnect the companies' networks.
In a statement late on Monday, Pacific Bell said AT&T was expected to file a request early this week with the California Public Utilities Commission for arbitration proceedings in order to reach an agreement.
"We've been trying very hard over the past months to reach agreement on the terms and conditions for interconnecting our networks," said Liz Fetter, president of Pacific Bell's Industry Markets Group. "While we've made progress on many of the issues, several significant ones remain unresolved."
Pacific Bell is negotiating under guidelines issued by the utilities panel for opening up its statewide network to competitors certified to provide local phone service in California.
Egypt has delayed any purchases of U.S. soft red wheat for now after buying U.S. soft white wheat at the weekend, and is exploring European and Argentinan markets, its main commodities buyer said on Tuesday.
"We're turning to European and Argentine wheat and hope they will offer competitive prices," Samir Shakankiri, vice president of the state's General Authority for Supply Commodities (GASC) told Reuters.
"We've delayed buying red American wheat for the time being and instead are exploring a variety of sources," he added.
On Saturday, GASC said it was seeking 50,000 tonnes of soft red French wheat for shipment in October or September and Shakankiri said he had already contacted Argentine exporters.
Egypt bought 150,000 tonnes of U.S. soft white wheat at $187.70 and $187.75 on Saturday and Sunday after originally seeking 50,000 tonnes of soft red or soft white wheat.
"We're increasing our sources to include other types of wheat which GASC deals in," he said.
U.S. exporters said Egypt was avoiding American soft red wheat because its vomitoxin content exceeded the two parts per million (ppm) specified by the GASC and had paid a premium of up to $2.00 a tonne for the fungus-free white wheat.
Vomitoxin, a toxin produced by the fusarium fungus, has been recorded in heavy concentrations of up to 15 ppm in U.S. soft red wheat in parts of Ohio, Indiana and Michigan this summer.
The U.S. Food and Drug Administration advises a limit of one ppm of vomitoxin in grain for human consumption.
The Chicago Board of Trade reported the following stocks of rice in Arkansas warehouses, deliverable against CBOT futures.   (in 000's CWT).
These are some of the leading stories in two London-based Arabic-language newspapers on Tuesday. Reuters has not verified these stories and does not vouch for their accuracy.
- Saudi may allow foreigners residing in the kingdom to deal in Saudi shares; bankers rule out any negative impact.
- Saudi's Safari Company Ltd is maintaining and operating government projects worth 1.5 billion riyals.
- Three opposition candidates win in Lebanon's parliamentary election.
- King Hussein of Jordan rejects Prime Minister's Kabariti resignation.
- Kuwaiti finance ministry signs memorandum of understanding with a British company and a French firm to invest $99 million in Kuwait.
- Deep differences between Syrian producers and investors over import laws.
LUXEMBOURG - General Affairs Council (To October 29).
- Preparation for December WTO ministerial meeting.
- Preparation for EU political profile at Cairo Summit (November 12-14).
- Middle East.
- Former Yugoslavia.
- Ukraine action plan.
- OSCE - Proposed guidelines for review and summit.
- Determination of EU's position for structured dialogue with central and eastern European countries.
- Commission presentation of green paper on post-Lome scenario.
- Relations with South Africa; state of negotiations.
- Relations with Switzerland.
- Interpretation and implementation of European Council common criteria to be applied to arms exports.
- Status of negotiations on framework agreement with Australia.
- Structured dialogue with central and eastern European countries.
- Signature of new partnership accords with Jordan and Lebanon.
- Signature of a framework accord with Korea.
- IGC ministerial session (first day).
LUXEMBOURG - Farm Council (To October 29).
BRUSSELS - Second European forum for social partners on services of general interest (To October 29). Agenda includes: role and missions of services of general interest in achieving the goals of the EU and guaranteeing the fundamental rights of its residents and citizens; role of the actors (public authorities, operators, consumers, employees); subsidiarity, regulation, control, evaluation; globalisation and European strategy towards third countries. Venue: Palais des Congres. Contact: First & Top Travel - L'Universelle Travel Group (322) 647 4935.
BRUSSELS - Economic and Social Committee (ECOSOC) holds plenary session (To October 31).
BRUSSELS - EU senior officials meet in the framework of the Euro-Mediterranean partnership on political and security questions (To October 31).
PARIS - Euroforum holds conference on "Gas and electricity '96 - deregulation: what is the impact?" (To October 31). Venue: Pavillon Royal, Bois de Boulogne. Contact: Alexandra Galeza (33) 1 44 88 14 98.
MARRAKESH, Morocco - Prometheus-Europe holds conference on "Articulate the Euro-Mediterranean partnership and decentralised cooperation" (To November 1). Topics include: the objectives of the Euro-Mediterranean partnership; the functioning of the EMP - circuits of decision-making, financial control and the MEDA regulation; the functioning of Euro-Mediterranean programmes in the context of decentralised cooperation. Contact: Euro-Med (33) 1 43 43 03 07.
- Irish presidency hosts conference on "Local employment initiatives". Date and venue to be announced.
VENICE, Italy - Conference on fish management in the Mediterranean. Date to be confirmed.
BRUSSELS - EU institutions closed for All Saints Day holiday.
EUROPEAN UNION - 1996 European Telework week begins (To November 11). The aim is to raise awareness of the business and work opportunities presented by telework and to provide opportunities to understand and use telework technologies. Contact: Horace Mitchell (44) 1 635 253 802.
VIENNA - Third European assembly on telework and new ways to work (To November 6). Main topics discussed are: getting people to work; training for life in the information society and working towards sustainability. Contact: Josef Hochgerner (43) 1 4950 442 42.
BRUSSELS - European Transport Safety Council (ETSC) holds conference on "Low-cost/high-return engineering measures for road accident reduction". Contact: ETSC (322) 230 4106.
BRUSSELS - CENELEC holds conference on "Standards on trial: case studies in European standardisation" (To November 6). Venue: Sheraton Hotel. Contact: Annick Colman, CENELEC (322) 519 6889.
BRUSSELS - Culture Council.
- (possibly) Debate on European funds promoting cinema and television production.
- Directive amending the television without frontiers directive.
- Decision establishing an audiovisual guarantee fund.
- Proposal for a directive harmonising rules on media concentrations.
- Decision on Ariane programme.
- Decision on Raphael programme.
- First Commission report on consideration of cultural aspects of EU action.
- Proposal for a decision on rules concerning the European city of culture after the year 2000.
- (possibly) Green paper on new audiovisual services.
- Proposal for a directive amending directive 93/7/EEC concerning the return of cultural objects unlawfully removed from the territory of a member state.
CORK, Ireland - European Commission hosts European conference on "Rural development" (To November 9). Discussions will focus on the future perspectives for the Union's rural development policy. This policy seeks to address the challenges faced by rural areas in a way that considers all economic sectors and aspects of rural life and builds on their strengths.
BRUSSELS - European Trade Union Confederation (ETUC) holds conference on "Social protection" (To November 8). Contact: ETUC (322) 224 0411.
CHICAGO - TransAtlantic Business Dialogue (TABD NEWS) holds conference (To November 9) to discuss transatlantic trade relations and develop creative solutions to remaining barriers to transatlantic trade. Speakers are: US Commerce Secretary Mickey Kantor, European Trade Commissioner Sir Leon Brittan and European Industry Commissioner Martin Bangemann. Contact: Stephen Johnston, EU Contact Point (322) 548 0693.
BRUSSELS - ECOFIN Council.
- Taxation issues.
STRASBOURG - European Parliament plenary session (To November 15).
BRUSSELS - Health Council.
- Proposal for an EP and Council decision adopting a programme of Community action on the prevention of drug dependence within the framework for action in the field of public health.
- Proposal for a decision adopting a programme of Community action on health monitoring in the context of the framework for action in the field of public health.
- Proposal for a Council directive on the approximation of the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the member states relating to the advertising of tobacco products.
- Proposal for a decision of the European Parliament and of the Council creating a network for the epidemiological surveillance and control of communicable diseases in the European Community.
- Setting-up of an EU-U.S. task force to develop and implement a global early warning system and response network for communicable diseases.
- (possibly) Transmissible Spongiform Encephalopathies (TSE).
- Blood safety/self sufficiency.
- State of health in the EU.
- Health protection requirements in Community policies.
- European health card.
- Accidents/injuries.
- Statement by presidency on Alzheimers Disease conference (November 21-22, 1996).
BRUSSELS - Committee of the Regions holds plenary session (To November 14).
BRUSSELS - EuroCommerce launches an analysis of European commerce and recommendations for future policy in recognition of the vital importance of this sector to th European economy (1030/0930 GMT). Venue: International Press Centre (IPC). Contact: Catherine Piana (322) 230 5 874.
BRUSSELS - Agra Europe holds third annual European grain conference (To November 14). Contact: Agra Europe (44) 1892 511 807.
BRUSSELS - Industry Council.
c) (possibly) Future of ECSC Treaty.
c) Agreement with Canada.
- (possibly) State of ratification procedure - OECD agreement.
b) Report on integrated programme.
d) Standards.
- Review of regulation 4064/89 on the control of concentrations between undertakings.
- Automobile industry.
- Chemicals industry.
- Communication from the Commission on the competitiveness of subcontracting in the textile and clothing industry in the European Union.
- (possibly) Recycling industry and environmental technology.
- (possibly) Space industry.
- (possbly) Cooperation with third countries.
BRUSSELS - EuroCommerce holds conference on "The business of adding value - European retailing and distribution". Main discussions focus on commerce in the cashless society and the challenges of multimedia. European Commission President Jacques Santer attends. Contact: Catherine Piana (322) 230 5874.
QATAR - European Commission DG XVII and the Cooperation Council for the Arab States of the Gulf (GCC) hold joint conference on "EU-GCC: extending the partnership to natural gas" (and 18/11).
BRUSSELS - Farm Council (To November 19).
BRUSSELS - Budget Council.
- Draft Community budget for 1997 (second reading).
BRUSSELS - Euro-Mediterranean Committee for the Barcelona process meets (To November 20).
LONDON - Agra Europe holds ninth annual European and international dairy conference "Dairy '96" (To November 20). Contact: Agra Europe (44) 1892 511 807.
BRUSSELS - Forum Europe, UNICE, the European Round Table of Industrialists (ERT), Eurochambres, the EU Committee of AmCham, the European Automobile Manufacturers Association (ACEA) and the European Chemical Industry Council (CEFIC) hold one-day conference (0930/0830 GMT) on "Europe's competitive edge". Main topic is: assessing the state of EU competitiveness, an agenda for future action. Main speaker is Martin Bangemann, Member of the European Commission with responsibility for Industrial Affairs, Information and Telecommunications technologies. Venue: Concert Noble, rue d'Arlon 82, 1040 Brussels. Contact: Clare Richardson, Forum Europe (322) 736 1430.
BRUSSELS - Education/Youth Council.
- Proposal for a decision on TEMPUS II.
- Conclusions on school effectiveness.
- European year of lifelong learning.
- Green paper on obstacles to mobility in higher education.
- Proposal for a recommendation concerning the assessment of quality in higher education.
- White paper on teaching and learning: towards the learning society.
- In-career development for teachers.
- (possibly) "SOCRATES" programme: draft decision amending the Socrates decision.
- Quality of higher education.
- General assessment of first and second level education systems.
- Commission proposal for a Council recommendation on the transferability of grants.
- Preparation of the structured dialogue with counterparts from central and eastern European countries.
BRUSSELS - Development Council.
- First ministerial exchange of views on ACP/EU relations post-Lome IV (Commission green paper).
- Further exchange of views on relief, rehabilitation and development.
- Resolution on the forestry sector.
- Adoption of a common position on the regulation on north/south cooperation in the fight against drugs.
- Adoption of a common position on the regulation on aid for population policies and programmes.
- Approval after EP second reading of the regulations on rehabilitation and construction in developing countries, refugees in Asia and Latin America, environmental measures in developing countries and HIV/AIDS related operations in developing countries.
- Horizon 2000 - coherence, complementarity and coordination.
BRUSSELS - Fisheries Council.
- The Community producer price for tuna intended for the industrial manufacture of products falling within CN code 1604 for the 1997 fishing year.
- Proposal for a Council regulation (EC) temporarily suspending totally or partially the autonomous duties of the Common Customs Tariff for certain fishery products (1997).
- (Possibly) Proposal for a Council Regulation laying down (new) technical measures for the conservation of fishery resources.
- (Possibly) Proposal for a Council decision on MAGP IV.
- Commission report on third countries' activities in Community waters.
- Proposals for a Council regulation on the conclusion of the protocol establishing the fisheries rights and financial compensation provided in the agreement between the European Economic Community and the government of Senegal.
d) Mozambique.
BRUSSELS - General Affairs Council (To November 26). In margins of the Council, EU/African Unity Organisation ministerial meeting.
- Preparation for Dublin European Council.
- Transatlantic relations.
- Preparation for December WTO ministerial meeting.
- Middle East.
- Middle East (post-Cairo summit).
- Albania: decision to sign a new accord.
- Relations with Turkey.
- Former Yugoslavia.
- Decision to sign trade and cooperation agreement with FYROM.
- Nigeria: renewal of sanctions.
- Biological and toxin weapons convention: approval of statement on the opening of the fourth review conference.
- Ratification of chemical weapons convention: statement welcoming ratification.
- Determination of EU position for structured dialogue with Cyprus and Malta.
- Conclusion of negotiations on framework agreement with Australia.
- Approval of interim protocols to Europe agreements.
- Russia: review of action plan.
- Food aid for Central Asian Republics.
- Status of negotiations with South Africa.
- Preparation for OSCE conference, Lisbon.
BRUSSELS - Consumers Council.
- Commission proposal on access to justice (injunctions).
- Commission communication on access to justice (settlement).
- Directive amending existing consumer credit directives.
- Commission green paper on commercial communications in the internal market.
- Commission green paper on financial services meeting consumers' expectations.
- Guarantees and after sales services.
- Consumer protection within the information society.
- Protection of vulnerable and disadvantaged consumers.
- Continuation of consumer education theme.
BRUSSELS - Brussels institute for management of the environment (IBGE), European federation of regional energy and environment agencies (FEDARENE) and Eurocities hold joint conference on "Plans and strategies for waste management on regional and local level" (0900/0800 GMT). Venue: General de Banque auditorium. Contact: IBGE by fax (322) 775 7679.
BRUSSELS - Internal Market Council.
- (possibly) 1996 study of the impact and effectiveness of single market legislation.
- Simpler legislation for the internal market (SLIM).
- Directive on legal protection of designs and industrial models.
- (possibly) 16th amendment of the directive 76/769/EEC on the marketing and use of certain dangerous substances and preparations.
- Citizens First initiative.
- Directive concerning the free movement of lawyers.
- European company statute.
- (possibly) Directive concerning the free movement of doctors.
- Proposal for a directive amending directive 93/7/EEC concerning the return of cultural objects unlawfully removed from the territory of a member state.
- (possibly) Proposal for a directive on the supplementary supervision of insurance undertakings in an insurance group.
b) Classification of processed euchema seaweed.
- Amendment to sweeteners directive 94/35/EEC.
- In-vitro medical diagnostic devices.
- Amending public procurement directives following the adoption of G.P.A.
- (possibly) Green paper on public procurement.
LUXEMBOURG - European Commission DG XI hosts standing conference on "Health and safety in the nuclear age: informing the public on European radiation standards" (1030/0930 GMT) (and 27/11). Topics include: major changes in the Euratom basic safety standards directive. Venue: Jean Monnet building, room M6. Contact: Mrs Eisen, DG IX (352) 4301 33 164.
BRUSSELS - Economic and Social Committee (ECOSOC) holds plenary session (to 28/11).
DUBLIN - European Finance Convention holds tenth anniversary meeting (to 30/11). Contact: (44) 171 381 9291.
BRUSSELS - European Parliament mini-session (To November 28).
VENICE - Second ministerial conference on the management of fish stocks in the Mediterranean (To November 29).
BRUSSELS - Justice and Internal Affairs Council (To November 29).
BRUSSELS - Telecoms Council.
- Telecommunications terminal and satellite earth station equipment.
- TENs: Proposal for a European Parliament and Council decision on a series of guidelines for trans-European telecommunications networks.
- Data protection: modified proposal for a directive of the European Parliament and of the Council concerning the processing of personal data and the protection of privacy in the telecommunications sectors, in particular in the integrated services digital network (ISDN).
- (possibly) Numbering.
- (possibly) ONP voice telephony.
- (possibly) Proposal for a Council decision on inter-administration telematic networks for statistics relating to the trading of goods between member states (EDICOM).
- Proposal for a European Parliament and Council directive on interconnection in telecommunications.
- Update of framework and leased lines directives on open network provision (ONP).
BRUSSELS - European Commission and the Indian government hold joint forum on trade and investment in India.
BRUSSELS (NEW ITEM) - European Institute for Asian Studies (EIAS) hold conference on "EU-Asia cooperation inteh WTO context" (To November 29). Main discussions focus on how and to what extent Asians and Europeans can cooperate inopening up markets within the WTO. Speakers include: Commissioner Brittan. Contact: EIAS, Kerstin Bergloef (322) 230 8122.
BRUGES, Belgium - European Society of Transport Institutes (ESTI) holds conference on "The citizens' network" (and 29/11). Topics discussed include: the implications of external costs principles on urban transport; the network benefits principles; the modernising of the regulatory framework in public transport. Venue: Castle Prinsenhof. Contact: Laetitia Hoste, ESTI (322) 230 0514.
LEIPZIG, Germany (NEW ITEM) - Verband Saechssicher Bildungsinstitute hold conference on "Education 2000" (To November 30). Topics include: the European education market; training in the latest skills; multimedia ability for both suppliers and users; innovation through personal development. Contact: Verband Saechssicher Bildungsinstitute, Dieter Webner (49) 341 490 5910.
LONDON - Agra Europe holds fifth annual European sugar, sweetners and starch conference (to November 29). Contact: Agra Europe (44) 1892 511 807.
BRUSSELS - European Parliament hosts conference on "Europe and its nations - before Maastricht II". Participants include: European Commission President Jacques Santer and Belgian Prime Minister Jean-Luc Dehaene.
BRUSSELS - ECOFIN Council.
- Commission report on the coordination of the Community's economic and structural policies.
- EIB loans to third countries.
- Taxation issues.
- SEM 2000 (sound and efficient management) final report of personal representatives group.
- Extension of administrative controls and sanctions.
BRUSSELS - Social Affairs Council.
- Follow-up of the Essen European Council: draft single report to the European Council of Dublin.
- Directive proposal on posting of workers in the framework of services.
- Proposal for a directive on the burden of proof in cases of discrimination based on sex.
- Proposal for a directive modifying directive 76/207/EEC (Kalanke European Court of Justice judgment).
- Amendment to regulation on civil servants and students (social security for migrant workers).
- Proposed regulation on modification of regulations (EEC) 1408/71 and 574/72 (social security of migrant workers: beneficiaries of pre-retirement benefits).
- Proposed regulation on various modifications of the regulations on social security of migrant workers.
- (possibly) Proposed regulation on codification of the regulations on social security of migrant workers.
- (possibly) Draft resolution on lifelong learning.
- Draft resolution on the future of social protection.
LISBON - Statistics Office of the European Community (SOEC) holds summit.
BRUSSELS - Energy Council.
- Proposal for a directive concerning common rules for the internal market in electricity.
- Proposal for a directive concerning common rules for the internal market in gas.
- White paper on energy: Community strategy on renewables.
- Proposal for a decision on ALTENER II.
- White paper on energy: proposal for a decision on analysis and forecasts.
- Proposal for a decision on SAVE II programme.
- Proposal for a directive on energy efficiency requirements for households: electric refrigerators, freezers and combinations thereof.
- Proposal for a regulation on a SYNERGY programme.
- Report on the situation of oil supply, refining and markets in the European Community.
- Proposal for a directive to introduce rational planning techniques in the electricity and gas distribution sectors.
- Proposal for a decision on the conclusion of the Energy Charter Treaty.
- Euro-Mediterranean conference.
- Revision of Community law in the energy sector.
BRUSSELS - Research Council.
- Financial supplement to the fourth framework programme/task force.
- Action plan on follow-up to the green paper on innovation.
- Fifth RTD framework programme.
- Presidency initiative on the contribution of research to drug detection and prevention of abuse.
- (possibly) Bilateral S/T agreements with several third countries.
- Commission communication on the EU and space.
- Commission communication on agronomic research for development.
- SMEs.
- Evaluation report from the Commission on the fusion programme.
- High flux reactor (HFR) programme.
CASABLANCA - Euro-Mediterranean summit of industrial federations.
BRUSSELS - General Affairs Council.
- Preparation of Dublin European Council.
- Discussion of 53rd U.N. Commission on human rights (including definition of EU position on China).
- Approval of policy document on peacekeeping operations.
- Submission of report on European armaments policy.
- Adoption of common position on U.N. register of conventional arms.
- Former Yugoslavia.
- Middle East.
- Syria: Commission proposal for a negotiating mandate.
- Preparation of EEA ministerial council.
- Internal financial regulation on ACP.
- Radiation protection of persons undergoing medical examination or treatment.
- Negotiating directives for a nuclear cooperation agreement between EURATOM and Japan.
- Approval of mandate to negotiate an agreement on wine with Slovakia, Slovenia and the Czech Republic.
- Agreement on steel with central and eastern European countries.
- Approval of negotiating mandate for a partnership and cooperation agreement with Turkmenistan.
- Follow-up to Bangkok ASEM and preparation for Singapore ministerial.
- Decision to sign framework agreement with Australia.
- Decision to sign mutual recognition agreements with Australia and New Zealand.
- Decision on signature of free trade agreement with South Africa.
SINGAPORE - Inaugural World Trade Organisation (WTO) ministerial conference (To December 13).
- Review of the implementation of Uruguay Round commitments.
- Endorsement of results of negotiations on services.
- Report from the committee on trade and environment.
- Any other trade-related issues.
BRUSSELS - Environment Council (To December 10).
- Proposal for a decision of the European Parliament and of the Council on the review of the European Community programme of policy and action in relation to the environment and sustainable development "Towards sustainability".
- Proposal for a Council directive amending directive 90/219/EEC on the contained use of genetically modified micro-organisms.
b) Draft directive on measures against air pollution by emissions from motor vehicules - amendment of directives 70/229//EEC and 70/156/EEC.
- Proposal for a Council directive concerning the quality of water intended for human consumption.
- Commission communication on waste policy.
- Proposal for a Council regulation amending Council regulation (EEC) No 3254/91 prohibiting the use of leghold traps in the Community and the introduction into the Community of pelts and manufactured goods of certain wild animal species originating in countries which catch them by means of leghold traps or trapping methods which do not meet international humane trapping standards.
- Proposal for a Council regulation establishing common rules and procedures to apply to the shipments to certain non-OECD countries of certain types of waste.
- Follow-up to the conference on climate change.
- Fifth session of the Commission on sustainable development.
STRASBOURG - European Parliament plenary session (To December 13).
BRUSSELS - Transport Council.
- Relations with the United States in the field of air transport.
- Recommendation for a Council decision authorising the Commission to open negotiations on air transport agreements between the Community and Bulgaria, the Czech Republic, Hungary, Poland, Romania and Slovakia.
- Negotiations between the European Community and Switzerland on land and air transport.
- (possibly) Follow-up to green paper on the citizens' network.
- (possibly) Follow-up to green paper on internalisation of external costs.
- (possibly) Proposal for an European Parliament and Council directive on summertime arrangements.
- (possibly) Follow-up to the white paper on the future of the railways.
- (possibly) Access to the road haulage profession.
- (possibly) Taxation of goods vehicles to replace directive 93/89/EEC.
- Proposal for a Council regulation laying down the conditions under which non-resident carriers may operate national road passenger transport services within a member state.
- Proposal for a Council regulation amending Council directive and regulation on recording equipment in road transport.
- Proposal for a Council regulation (EEC) No 684/92 on common rules for the international carriage of passengers by coach and bus.
- Follow-up to white paper on air traffic management.
- (possibly) Follow-up to high level group on air safety.
- Proposal for the establishment of a single European authority for air safety.
- (possibly) Proposal on airport charges.
- Proposal for a Council regulation on air carrier liability in case of accidents.
- (possibly) Revision of regulation on slot allocation.
- (possibly) Proposals to update rules on denied boarding compensation and passenger protection.
- (possibly) Licensing regime for roll-on roll-off ferry operations.
- (possibly) Compiling lists of passengers on roll-on roll-off ferries.
- Proposal for Council directive setting up a harmonised safety regime for fishing vessels of 24 metres in length and over.
- (possibly) Commission strategic document.
- (possibly) Proposal to amend Council directive 94/58/EC on the minimum level of training of seafarers.
- (possibly) Proposal to amend Council directive 93/75/EEC concerning minimum requirements for vessels bound for or leaving Community ports and carrying dangerous or polluting goods.
- (possibly) Shipping agreements with third countries, especially China and India.
- (possibly) Report on competition in the multimodal sector.
DUBLIN - Irish presidency hosts European Council of heads of state and government (To December 14).
- Council report on the development of tax systems within the Union, taking into account the need to create a tax environment that stimulates business and the creation of jobs and promotes a more efficient environmental policy.
- Commission and European Monetary Institute (EMI) report on progress in stage three of European Monetary Union (EMU).
- Commission report on subsidiarity.
* Simplification of the treaties.
- Commission report on appropriate initiatives for reinforcing regional cooperation in Europe.
- Report on the evolution of the trade policies and the preferential agreements of the Community in relation to the World Trade Organisation (WTO).
- Final European Commission report on the mutually beneficial effects of greater coordination of the Union's economic and structural policies.
- Review of December 1995 Madrid summit recommendations on fighting unemployment and on application of multiannual employment programmes.
- Joint ECOFIN/Social Affairs Council annual employment monitoring report.
erts group report on the fight against drugs.
- Territorial pacts for employment within the framework of the confidence pact for employment.
STRASBOURG - Council of Europe holds symposium on "Medically-assisted procreation and the protection of the human embryo" (To December 18).
BRUSSELS - Farm Council (To December 17).
BRUSSELS - Economic and Social Committee (ECOSOC) holds plenary session (To December 19).
BRUSSELS - Fisheries Council (To December 20).
- Proposal for a Council regulation fixing, for certain fish stocks and groups of fish stocks, the total allowable catches for 1997 and certain conditions under which they may be fished.
- (possibly) Proposal for a Council regulation amending Council regulation (EC) No. 3074/95 fixing, for certain fish stocks and groups of fish stocks, the total allowable catches for 1996 and certain conditions under which they may be fished.
- (Possibly) Proposal for a Council regulation laying down certain rules for the access to Community waters of research vessels for scientific purposes.
- (Possibly) Commission proposal on the financing of collection of scientific data.
- (Possibly) Proposal for a Council regulation (EC) amending regulation (EEC) No. 2847/93 establishing a control system applicable to the common fisheries policy (establishment of a Community catch-reporting data-base).
- (Possibly) Proposal for a Council decision on MAGP IV.
b) allocating, for 1997, certain catch quotas between member states for vessels fishing in the Norwegian exclusive zone and the fishing zone around Jan Mayen.
b) allocating, for 1997, certain catch quotas between member states for vessels fishing in Faroese waters.
- Proposal for a Council regulation allocating, for 1997, Community catch quotas in Greenland waters.
- Proposal for Council regulation allocating, for 1997, certain catch quotas between member states for vessels fishing in Icelandic waters.
b) allocating, for 1997, catch quotas between member states for vessels fishing in Estonian waters.
b) allocating, for 1997, catch quotas between member states for vessels fishing in Latvian waters.
b) allocating, for 1997, catch quotas between member states for vessels fishing in Lithuanian waters.
b) allocating, for 1997, catch quotas between member states for vessels fishing in Polish waters.
b) allocating, for 1997, catch quotas between member states for vessels fishing in Russian waters.
- Proposal for Council regulation laying down, for 1997, certain conservation and management measures for fishery resources in the regulatory area as defined in the Convention on future multilateral cooperation in the North West Atlantic Fisheries.
- Proposal for a Council regulation laying down, for 1997, certain measures for the conservation and management of fishery resources applicable to vessels flying the flag of certain non-member countries in the 200-nautical-mile zone off the coast of the French Department of Guiana.
- (Possibly) NAFO: New STACFAC regulations.
b) Authorizing the Portuguese Republic to extend the agreement on mutual fishery relations with the Republic of South Africa.
LUXEMBOURG - Executive committee of Schengen group on free movement of people meets at ministerial level under Luxembourg presidency. Venue: Kirchberg conference centre. Luxembourg is hoping to achieve admittance of Nordic countries to Schengen accord during its presidency of the group, with signature of accession protocols for Denmark, Finland and Sweden and association protocols for Iceland and Norway at the meeting.
BRUSSELS - EU institutions closed for Christmas holidays until January 2.
- Irish EU presidency ends. The Netherlands takes over to June 30, 1997.
EC Report (C)opyright Reuters Limited.
Interest in U.S. foreign crude remained subdued amid choppy outright price activity related to the expiry on Tuesday of NYMEX September crude futures.
The absence of September cargoes offered into the U.S. Gulf was still blamed on narrow profit margins.
"Apart from one or two Qua Iboes and maybe a Bonny Light, nobody's seen anything," a Houston trader said.
Vague rumors of Malaysian Tapis being offered for September delivery could not be immediately pinned down.
September West Texas Intermediate/Cushing was pegged at $22.80-90 a barrel, down 25 cents from Monday's cash market.
Latin American crude differentials, meanwhile, clawed higher amid tight supplies.
September Cusiana was heard offered close to WTI parity, up from October minus 27 cents fob in a recent deal, with late Sept asked at a shade under November WTI.
Spot Cano Limon for September was pegged around WTI minus $1.65-70 a barrel fob, after Ecopetrol's tender last week went for minus $1.65 a barrel, traders said.
A couple of September Oriente cargoes were seen available and priced around WTI minus $1.80.
The upgrading of Tropical Storm Dolly to a hurricane just before making landfall on Mexico's Yucatan peninsula this afternoon, has so far not caused any crude shipping delays.
In the U.S. aftermarket, cash Brent traded at September Brent plus two cents fob for Aug 29-31, less than yesterday's trade at Sept plus 15 cents.
Brent intermonth Sep/Oct traded thrice at 50 cents, off 10 cents from morning levels.
Note - Q2 1996 loss includes $1 million accural for settlement of a law suit, $579,000 federal income tax refund and fees associated with refund of $145,000.
Jenny Craig Inc said Tuesday heightened public interest in new weight-loss drugs such as Redux presents a new challenge for the company in the coming fiscal year.
The weight-loss company said that publicity for these new weight-loss drugs appeared to slow demand during the normally slow summer period. The company noted weekly deposits for July and early August fell 14 percent from the year-ago period.
However the company said that it expects the effect of these new drugs to be transitory since the U.S. Food and Drug Administration said it approved the Redux drug when used in conjunction with a reduced calorie diet, an excercise program and behaviour education which are all features of the Jenny Craig program.
The company also said it was buying 38 Jenny Craig centers -- 36 in New York and two in Hawaii.
Earlier the company posted fourth quarter profits of $7.8 million or $0.36 a share on sales of $104.6 million compared with income of $5.5 million or $0.22 a share on sales of $98.2 million in the year-ago quarter.
Jenny Craig shares closed 3/4 higher at 17-1/4 on the New York Stock Exchange.
Shanghai will invest 98.7 billion yuan in infrastructure in the Pudong New Area in the next five years, nearly four times the amount over the past five years, the Xinmin Evening News said on Tuesday.
The investment will be used to construct projects such as an airport, seaport and information superhighway and will mark a new step in the development of Pudong, the paper said.
There will be total investment of 300 billion yuan in fixed assets in Pudong over the five years, four times the amount during the 1990-1995 period, it said. It did not say from which sources the money will come.
Since China began to allow foreign investment in Pudong in 1989, 4,000 foreign-funded companies have set up there, with total investment of $16.9 billion, it added but gave no more details.
The city government wants to turn Pudong into the city's financial and manufacturing centre, the Manhattan of Asia.
Leading European cartonboard manufacturer Mayr-Melnhof Karton AG (MMK) said on Tuesday it was committed to paying out a dividend for 1996 after scrapping its dividend last year.
"The dividend for 1996 has already been secured through payments that have come into the parent company," chief executive Michael Groeller told journalists after presenting the company's first-half earnings.
Groeller declined to say how big the dividend would be but said that "our shareholders will be satisfied."
Earlier this year investors were miffed when MMK reported an 18 percent jump in 1995 group pre-tax profit to 430 million schillings but decided to scrap its dividend after paying out 14 schillings in 1994.
MMK decided to forego a 1995 dividend after profits at the holding company were wiped out by a write-down in Germany, where its FS Karton AG unit suffered significant losses.
NOTE - Taki Chemical Co Ltd is a fertiliser maker.
Qantas Airways regional general manager freight, Peter Barry said the airline's recently restarted service to Bombay is already a success.
Speaking from Singapore, where he is based, he added the airline was reporting load factors of 70 per cent and "anticipates up to 85 per cent".
Qantas said they pulled out of the Indian destination five years ago because of poor demand but last month restarted the route on twice weekly basis using a Boeing 767 aircraft.
"After a five year gap, we've started flying to Bombay connecting our Australian services in Singapore and that has worked very well with load factors of 70 per cent straight off. India is booming nicely," Barry said.
The Federal Reserve refrained from open market operations on Tuesday, dealers said.
The Fed's absence in the market was widely expected and was interpreted as having no monetary policy implications.
The Fed's Open Market Committee is currently meeting to decide the future of the country's short-term rates. The outcome of the meeting is seen at around 1415 EDT/1815 GMT.
At 1130 EDT/1530 GMT, the time when the Fed usually intervenes in the market, the federal funds rate was quoted at 5-1/8 percent, below the central bank's 5-1/4 percent target.
Taiwan's foreign ministry said on Tuesday it had severed ties with Niger after the West African state renewed diplomatic relations with China.
Niger -- one of just 31 countries in the world which had recognised Taipei insteadof Beijing -- made an about-face on Monday and said the People's Republic of China was the sole legal government of China and Taiwan was part of its territory.
"The Republic of China (Taiwan) deeply regrets Niger's submission to communist China's threats and temptations and has decided to terminate diplomatic relations with Niger with immediate effect and stop all cooperation between the two countries," a Taiwan foreign ministry statement issued late on Monday said.
"Communist China forced Niger to stop relations with us as a condition for renewing their ties...," the statement said.
"The Republic of China (Taiwan) government offers the strongest condemnation of such behavior from communist China. Our government...will continue to expand our external relations, and our position is firm and will never sway.
China has recently stepped up international contacts in a bid to counter a diplomatic offensive by Taiwan, which has relations with nine other African states, including South Africa. Chinese President Jiang Zemin visited six African countries in May, including Niger's neighbour Mali.
Taipei's decision to sever ties with Niger comes amid news that Taiwan's vice-president was on a secretive trip to an unspecified country where it has no diplomatic ties, apparently in Europe.
Vice President Lien Chan, described by one Taipei daily as "travelling like a cat", made a brief and quiet stopover in Vienna and left only oblique clues as to his final destination.
Taiwan's state-funded Central News Agency said from Vienna that unsubstantiated reports had Lien "heading north" or perhaps going to a "German-speaking country bordering Italy" -- a clear reference to Switzerland.
Lien's move is expected to anger Beijing, which has tried to shut down Taiwan's international activity. Investors, wary that China-Taiwan tensions could quickly boil up again, sent the island's stock market reeling on Tuesday for the second day.
Any country which allows senior Taiwanese politicians on its soil may be set on a diplomatic collision course with China which has regarded Nationalist-ruled Taiwan as a renegade province since the end of a Chinese civil war in 1949.
The Vatican is the only state in Europe which has diplomatic relations with Taiwan, recognising Taipei as China's capital rather than Beijing.
Niger and Taiwan renewed relations in 1992, causing a break in the African country's ties with China, but winning Niamey a US$50 million Taiwan loan.
Taiwan, holding foreign-exchange reserves of US$85.18 billion, among the largest in the world, has set up a US$1 billion dollar fund to aid Third World development.
New car sales in Poland jumped more than 33 percent in the first seven months of 1996 compared with the same period last year, PAP news agency said on Tuesday.
PAP quoted a report by the Samar agency, which monitors the domestic car market, as saying that about 230,766 units were sold over the period, up from 173,435 a year earlier.
The Polish unit of Fiat led the market with 98,545 units sold, but its market share shrank to 43 percent this year from 51 percent in 1995.
Other top sellers include Daewoo-FSO, a unit of South Korea's Daewoo Corp, General Motors' German unit Adam Opel AG and France's Renault.
Samar Director Wojciech Drzewiecki earlier predicted that Poland's auto sales should exceed 300,000 this year, compared to about 265,000 in 1995.
The increase is spurred by growth in real wages and more attractive bank loans.
Six months to June 30.
Note: Full name Negros Navigation Co.
The BICS 100 index measuring the Czech Republic's most liquid bonds rose 0.015 points on Tuesday to 99.804, bank Ceska Sporitelna said.
It said the duration of the index portfolio fell by 0.003 points to 2.496 years.
The BICSG 100 index, which Ceska Sporitelna calculates using only government bonds, remained unchanged at 96.138 points, the bank said, while the duration of the index portfolio shortened by 0.003 points to 2.433 years.
It said the yield index YBICS 1000 fell 0.753 points to 1,196.071.
Bulgaria's Finance Ministry will offer a special issue of 2.2 billion levs worth of 34-day discount T-bills at an auction on Wednesday, the Bulgarian National Bank (BNB) said.
22, at the average accepted price.
Lloyd's of London chief executive Ron Sandler on Tuesday faced a three-hour grilling in a crucial United States court case, which threatens at the last minute to upset a recovery plan for the 300-year-old insurance market.
Tens of thousands of investors in Lloyd's worldwide are anxiously awaiting the outcome of the case in Virginia, where U.S. investors (Names) have applied for an injunction to stop the recovery plan in its tracks.
The investors, known as Names, contend that Lloyd's has contravened U.S. disclosure laws. Sandler is fighting the action personally and underwent several hours of cross-examination on Monday, said Lloyd's.
On Tuesday, he said the recovery plan was essential to the future of Lloyd's. Under the proposals, Lloyd's is to reinsure billions of pounds in liabilities, including pollution and asbestosis claims in the U.S., into a new company Equitas.
Lloyd's has for several years faced a giant raft of litigation in the U.S., but the timing of this latest challenge so near the August 28 deadline, by which Names must accept or reject the recovery plan, has caused it a serious headache.
Judge Robert Payne in Monday's sitting criticised the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission for refusing to determine whether Lloyd's should be subject to U.S. securities laws.
The legal challenge was complicated on Friday by the SEC's neutral position on this issue. Payne said the SEC would have a second opportunity to respond to his request for a ruling.
Early on Tuesday morning, however, Lloyd's received a boost from a separate court case in New York, which dismissed action brought against the market by four Names. They had claimed that Lloyd's knew long ago the extent of liabilities faced by Names.
"We are pleased by this decision. Names entered into their commitments under UK law and we are pleased that U.S. courts continue to recognise this," said Lloyd's U.S. boss Peter Lane.
In Britain, meanwhile, support among Names for the recovery plan has grown since Lloyd's improved its proposals, which include a 3.2 billion pounds ($4.95 billion) offer to Names designed to offset the cost of Equitas.
A last ditch attempt at securing more favourable treatment by a British-based action group foundered last week, when the High Court threw out a case for judicial review of the plan.
But a former Name heading an action group of loss-making investors, on Tuesday hit out at Lloyd's for "breaking promises" he says were made to the hardest-hit Names.
The outspoken chairman of the Lloyd's Names Associations' Working Party and the deputy leader of the Lloyd's Defence Shield, Christopher Stockwell, ended weeks of silence with the charge Lloyd's has "reneged" on income and housing pledges.
Stockwell said the scheme was entirely dependent on the availability of future funds. This meant Lloyd's could end the scheme any time, which amounted to no formal commitment.
He also claimed fewer than 20 percent of Names have so far accepted the recovery plan. Lloyd's rejected both statements.
The market last week published guidelines for helping those Names who were worst off after accepting its recovery plan.
Moody's Investors Service - Rating Announcement As of 08/20/96.
    Issuer		: Fulton Co. S.D. Fin. Corp.
Salomon Brothers, the investment banking unit of Salomon Inc, said Tuesday it formed a new bank loan group which will be responsible for both originating and distributing bank loans through syndication, sales and trading.
Salomon Brothers said the group's effots will be integrated with Salomon Brothers' high-yield fixed income group.
Salomon Brothers said formation of the bank loan group represents an expansion of the firm's expertise in financing below-investment grade credits.
At CS First Boston, Ivers was managing director in the leveraged finance group. He was responsible for origination and structuring of senior secured loans and coverage of several buyout firms including Kohlberg Kravis Roberts.
The bank loan group will report to Randy Barker, managing director and head of high yield and emerging markets capital markets.
"We are forming this new group to better serve our clients, who are increasingly seeking 'one-stop' solutions to their financing needs," Salomon Brothers chairman and chief executive Deryck Maughan said in a statement.
Indian global depositary receipts (GDRs) rose in the wake of gains on the local market and premiums expanded from five percent, but market makers are not optimistic gains will carry through.
"A few buyers came in in the morning and this forced the market makers to cover, which attracted in more buyers and so on," said one market maker.
The HSBC James Capel Indian GDR index  JCEAI rose 2.60 points, 3.90 percent, to 69.28 points, with the premium over the locals at 9.32 percent compared with yesterday's 5.36 percent.
The Bombay Stock Exchange 30-share index rose 34.57 points, or 1.05 percent, to 3,316.06 points.
"The market may go up 100 points, but it is a classic bear squeeze, no one is bullish on India at the moment," said a trader.
Indian Hotels gained $1.40 at 23.87/24.87.
"There are no big trades, just deals in 10s and 20s," said a trader. "There are lots of frustrated market makers out there," he added.
The Capel Korea GDR Index ended down 1.26 points, 1.83 percent, at 73.01 points, a premium of 19.36 percent over the local market, compared with yesterday's 19.85 percent.
The Korea Composite Index fell 6.61 points to a provisional 793.91, its lowest level for 33 months.
The Capel Taiwan GDR Index ended up 1.84 points, 2.15 percent, at 87.65 points, a premium of 7.79 percent after 5.64 percent yesterday.
Iran on Tuesday commissioned a $54 million locally-designed sponge iron plant which it said represented a technological breakthrough in steel production.
Tehran radio said the Qaem-2 plant in Isfahan in central Iran would have a yearly output of 600,000 tonnes of sponge iron, which is used in steel production, through a new Iranian-developed process which would save costs and energy compared to other techniques.
The plant, built in 18 months for 88 billion rials ($50.3 million) and $3.8 million in hard currency, would raise the state-run Isfahan Steel Company's yearly output to 2.4 million tonnes, it added.
The radio said the Qaem-2 direct reduction process required half the capital outlay of the Midrex technology and used 60 percent less electricity and 30 percent less gas than the process developed by the U.S.-based firm.
Officials of Midrex Direct Reduction Corp, a unit of Japanese Kobe Steel, were quoted last year as saying previous attempts by other countries to develop alternative technology had failed but that they were interested to know more about the Iranian process.
Iran reported steel production of about 4.7 million tonnes in the Iranian year that ended on March 19 and said output was expected to reach six million tonnes in the current year.
Next week's Democratic convention will unfold in a $175 million sports arena in the middle of one of the nation's most downtrodden neighbourhoods.
Nearby vacant lots, dilapidated high-rise projects and empty storefronts are the devastating legacy of urban rioting that erupted in the area a few months before the Democrats last met in Chicago for their 1968 convention.
The neighbourhood's population shrank in the years after the riots triggered by the assassination of the Rev. Martin Luther King Jr. that year and the area remains predominantly poor and black.
But a new library, a boy's club named after the late father of basketball star Michael Jordan and dozens of new homes and apartments dot the urban landscape, which lies within sight of Chicago's soaring downtown skyscrapers.
Mayor Richard Daley, in a bid to put the best face on the nation's third-largest city, has ordered wrought-iron fences built around vacant lots and trees and flowers planted in the median strips of avenues leading to the United Centre arena.
"It's coming back," said Earnest Gates, a 44-year-old entrepreneur and community activist who has spearheaded the rebuilding of the neighbourhood he called West Haven.
"For 25 years the area had been neglected. When we talk about disinvestment, this was a prime example. So any amounts of money that are spent, we're still playing catch-up. It's time for the area to get it's fair share of resources."
A few decades ago, the Near West Side was a thriving community housing Jews and Italians. But when a few black families moved in during the 1950s, it fell prey to real estate hucksters who frightened the whites into fleeing.
Then, like other American inner cities hit by violence after the assassination of black civil rights leader King, the area's business district was mostly burned down and banks and insurance companies subsequently refused to do business there.
"Between the block-busting that the real estate companies were doing and the redlining, that pretty much spelled the demise of the neighbourhood," Gates said. "We probably lost well over half the population."
Many working-class blacks migrated to the suburbs or to better-preserved black neighbourhoods on the city's South Side, forming the city's healthy black middle class. But for ravaged neighbourhoods like West Haven, recovery has been slow.
The modest construction projects and a few contracts tied to the convention have provided jobs for area residents. But in a city still seen as one of the nation's most segregated, joblessness, illegal drugs and despair remain rife.
The economic reasons behind the city's fragile mix are obvious. An outflow of manufacturers caused the city to lose 180,000 jobs in the 1970s and 1980s, at a time when the downtown district created less than 20,000 jobs.
Chicago's suburbs, which grew as the city shrank and now contain more than half the metropolitan area's more than seven million people, siphoned off growth and added 250,000 jobs.
Underscoring the importance of projecting a safe wholesome image during the convention, the city's economy relies more on the tourist trade, shoppers, and seekers of culture. "In terms of world-class cities, Chicago is prominent because it's an industrial city that has remade itself," Loyola University sociologist Philip Nyden said.
A new art museum, a theatre on a renovated pier that forms part of a thriving lakefront, and rapid growth in the near North Side shopping district have attracted visitors and jobs.
"One of the key issues folks in Chicago are looking at is to make sure the urban agenda is not forgotten by the Democratic party. Unlike the 1960s, a lot of the people who protested then are in positions of influence now," Nyden said.
Emerging Markets Data Plc (EMD) said on Tuesday it had agreed to an on-line partnership with British information service M.A.I.D Plc.
The deal will allow M.A.I.D to globally distribute EMD's information and data via the firm's Corporate Profound and Profound for the Internet products.
"The relationship with M.A.I.D will have a considerable impact on turnover and profit," EMD said in a statement.
EMD is based in London and Dublin.
Med oil products were steady or a touch stronger on Tuesday. Naphtha was again steady relative to northern Europe, where prices have been pressured by good avails of Russian material.
One dealer said he saw September cif Med swaps at around $188.50, some $3 a tonne below cif NWE swaps. He also assessed full-range Alexandria-origin cargoes at a $3 or $3.50 premium to the quoted cif high. Greek material was also heard available.
Traders estimate that some 30,000 tonnes of low octane Russian gasoline was exported into the Black Sea in August, from previously negligible levels. The rise in exports stemmed from changing Russian internal demand patterns, traders said.
Gas oil held firm with good demand from inside and outside the region continuing to underpin prices.
Italian heating oil was pegged at quotes fob high +$5 a tonne fob Italy, while 0.05 percent diesel was assessed at a premium of $17 over fob quotes. High sulphur cracked fuel oil was a touch firmer at around $85-86 fob Med. Traders said there was some interest in a 50,000 tonne bunker spec cargo understood already on the market. The Tunisian tender for 100,000 tonnes of high sulphur cracked with a September to January delivery was to be awarded today.
Low sulphur cracked material was slow, the main Med buyer remained quiet.
A Hong Kong dimsum cook has told a court he chopped up his temptress boss into 11 pieces after she stripped off her clothes in his bedroom and tried to seduce him.
Zeng Liangxin, a 31-year-old worker imported from China who went on trial for the murder on Monday, told the court he killed the woman because he feared she would accuse him of rape after he had spurned her, the South China Morning Post newspaper said.
He decapitated the body and carved it into chunks that he threw into a river, he told Monday's hearing.
But he slept with her legs that night after becoming too exhausted with the grisly task and fearing that he would be spotted if he made too many trips with the dismembered body.
He dumped the legs the next morning, he said.
Zeng is a specialist in dimsum, a style of Chinese teahouse snacks popular among the local Cantonese population as well as in Chinatowns overseas.
Belgian bonds trod water on Tuesday with dealers seeing little news to move the market until Thursday when the Bundesbank is expected to lower its 3.20 percent repo rate slightly after its regular council meeting.
But even that might turn out to be a non-event since the move, likely to be followed by the Belgian National Bank, is heavily discounted. Some say it is expected to the extent that when it happens profit-taking might force prices down.
With traders split on whether to switch to flattening trades or continue with curve steepening purchases at the short end on hopes of further gains, the market was practically stuck.
"The trend remains pro-steepening...there is no appetite to buy 15- or 20-year paper," said one trader. Talk of a new 10-year benchmark bond in September would add to price pressure at the longer end, he added.
But another trader said the market was overdiscounting the Bundesbank action on Thursday, limiting the upside. He recommended flattening trades.
For the longer term the yield trend was down, dealers said, pointing to a return of cash to the market. "The consensus is that the market (prices) will go higher," one said.
The trader said he would buy again once the Bund future slipped below 97.90, noting a break above 98.25 meant the contract could gain another 30 to 40 basis points.
The Belgian contract was unchanged at 116.46.
The yield on the current benchmark, the 2006 OLO, firmed by a basis point to 6.58 percent.
North Ltd said production would not be affected by a rock slide on Tuesday that killed one man at its Northparkes copper and gold mine in New South Wales.
The rock slide occurred in an underground section of the mine, North said.
North holds 80 percent of the mine, with Sumitomo Metal Australia Pty Ltd owning the rest.
North's share of production in the latest quarter was 5,550 tonnes of copper and 13,677 ounces of gold.
North said it would investigate the cause of the accident.
The Bulgarian lev slipped to 198.60-199.00 per dollar in low volumes after opening at 198.00/50 on the interbank market, dealers said.
"The lev retreated to 199 per dollar due to a general reluctance of market makers to offer foreign currency as they expect the lev to fall further," a commercial bank dealer said.
Banks bid for low foreign currency volumes, mostly on behalf of final clients, but supply was even lower, which put the lev under growing pressure, another dealer said.
U.S. Agriculture Department chief meteorologist Al Peterlin said given current crop conditions, a very small percentage of the U.S. crop would be vulnerable to damage from a normal frost.
"I don't see it being the overpowering consideration at this particular moment," Peterlin told USDA radio.
Peterlin said up to 10 percent of the crop in Indiana would be vulnerable to some kind of damage with a normal frost date and estimated up to 10 to 15 percent of the crop in Ohio would be at risk.
As for concerns about an early frost, Peterlin said a cold season is not a good predictor of an early frost and said in fact it may be the opposite.
"We could have a cool season because we have extensive cloud cover which ends up moderating that extreme dip in temperatures. What I would look at is the severity of the cool air outbreaks as they start coming out of Canada," he said.
"This is still August, we have, even with cool temperatures, an awful lot of 80 plus degree days ahead of us, a chance to get this crop growing," the USDA meteorologist said.
"There is no question it's a problem. We have some vulnerability and we want to continue to watch it and be cognizent of what's going on but until I can actually forecast a frost date I'm just not yet ready to panic," Peterlin said.
Morgan Keegan & Co., Inc. said it won $8.500 million of Gulfport, Miss., general obligation public improvement bonds, Series 1996, with a net interest cost of 5.364 percent.
+ Imminent chart breakout from 730p should ensure SmithKline Beecham shares can then move to 850p, technical analysts said.
Shares in pharmaceuticals group SmithKline Beecham are close to chart breakout at 730p and if this occurs it paves the way for a further advance, technical analysts said.
"Once 730p is broken, the way should be open for a move to at least 850p (long-term)," said David Charters, managing director at Investment Research of Cambridge Ltd.
By 0800 GMT, SmithKline Beecham shares were up 3p to 720p.
After stumbling to 630p in April from a peak at 725p in February the shares have made three previous attempts to make a break to the upside but this latest attempt may be successful.
One encouraging sign is that SmithKline Beecham shares have made a series of higher lows since April.
"They are winding themselves up for another attack and the relative strength (against the All-Share index) looks rather better this time," said Charters.
If the share price presses higher, the deviation between the moving averages will widen as the 25 day average seeks to follow the shares up and pulls away from the 200 day average.
"SmithKline Beecham is a classic growth share which (and) with the present (positive) market background, (it) is unlikely to languish for very much longer," said Charters.
The London Metal Exchange (LME) said that following a board meeting on August 14 its locations at Los Angeles and Long Beach will be listed separately.
The change will be effective from November 1996.
In an Exchange notice the LME said the companies to be listed under Los Angeles are currently California Cartage Company Inc and Crescent Warehouse Company Ltd.
Failed Australian businessman Alan Bond was sentenced to three years in jail Tuesday for fraud involving the French impressionist painting, La Promenade.
The Western Australia District Court sentenced Bond after a jury last Friday found him guilty of four fraud charges, brought by the corporate watchdog the Australian Securities Commission, which carried a maximum sentence of 14 years in jail.
India vowed on Tuesday to block a nuclear test ban treaty from being formally adopted by the Conference on Disarmament and sent to the U.N. General Assembly.
But Western diplomats said they were marshalling support for the global pact and if prevented from reaching consensus in the conference would send it to the General Assembly by using a special resolution.
India last week blocked the committee which has been negotiating on the treaty text since January 1994 from formally adopting the pact and sending it to the main conference.
Ghose, speaking before a conference session, said that making the treaty text an official document of the full conference would be "an assault on the institution".
Asked whether she expected treaty sponsors to try to send it to the General Assembly, she replied: "That is the right of all states to go to the General Assembly. They can take what they want to the General Assembly."
A battle is brewing in Connecticut over who is going to foot the bill for all the electricity Northeast Utilities (NU) was forced to buy this summer to make up for the loss of its nuclear power plants.
At stake is $120 million, which the state's attorney general Richard Blumenthal vows must not be paid by consumers.
After the last of the three Millstone units was shut, Connecticut's Department of Public Utilties (DPU) hired two consulting companies, Russ Brown and Associates and Barrington Wellesley, to review NU's nuclear operations.
"It's a prudency audit," said DPU spokesman Beryl Lyons, adding the studies would play a pivotal role to determine whether DPU permit NU to recover costs related to the outages of its Millstone and Connecticut Yankee nuclear complex.
At the center of the controversy are NU's two Connecticut nuclear facilities: Millstone and Connecticut Yankee.
The plants, with a combined generating capacity of about 3,282 megawatts - or about half of the state's power demand - were shut in March and July, respectively, amid safety concerns raised by the federal Nuclear Regulatory Commission (NRC).
When asked if NU would attempt to recover costs linked to the shutdowns, company spokeswoman Myra Humphreys replied "We don't know yet. It has not been determined."
She reiterated that the utility would not seek to recoup costs at Millstone stemming from its operating history or from its inclusion on the NRC's "watch list" of nuclear reactors that warrant commission approval before restart.
But NU might still seek compensation for purchased power.
"If (Millstone) unit 3 comes back on line, it would depend on NRC's attitude on one and two," she said. "(Units) one and two are being questioned more than three."
While there are still no firm restart dates for any of the Millstone units, the 582 MW Connecticut Yankee plant is seen returning to the power grid sometime in late autumn.
Meanwhile, NU estimates it has cost about $25-30 million a month to buy replacement power for the Millstone units from other electricity producers.
On July 24, NU's subsidiary Western Massachusetts Electric Co agreed with the Massachusetts Attorney General not to pass on nuclear cost increases to its customers.
Adelmann said the health of NU would improve with restart of the Millstone nuclear units, but the degree of improvement would depend on which unit resumed operation first.
INTERNATIONAL MICROCOMPUTER SOFTWARE, INC.
		  INTERNATIONAL MICROCOMPUTER SOFTWARE, INC.
Note: Full name of company is San Juan Basin Royalty Trust.
The following are analysts' reactions to Japan's indices of economic indicators for June, released on Tuesday, which showed a figure of 70.0 on a scale of 100 for the diffusion index of leading economic indicators, and 55.0 for the index of coincident indicators.
The figures were exactly in line with analysts' forecasts.
"Today's data confirm that the economic recovery is still moderate. I don't think there will be any change in the outlook for the Bank of Japan's monetary policy. We have to wait for an announcement of the (BOJ's) tankan survey. Then you can see a new view of the economy."
MICHAEL HARTNETT, AT MERRILL LYNCH, TOKYO: "They (the data) sort of confirmed that over coming months you should see industrial production trend upward. That's encouraging rather than discouraging. By and large, I think most indicators will stay above the so-called boost "boom or bust" 50 mark."
Danish share prices closed higher on Tuesday, with the KFX index hitting a new closing record again and further gains expected as good corporate interim results flood in.
"The market undertone remains positive and there was a lot of activity today. The generally good first-half 1996 results should spark more gains tomorrow," one dealer said.
Unidanmark dominated the day, posting a better than expected interim pre-tax profit but disappointing the market a little with the share closing only two crowns up at 272 after fluctuating marginally earlier.
Den Danske Bank, its first-half 1996 result due on Thursday, closed unchanged at 396.
Otherwise ISS continued its recovery, putting on two crowns to finish at 133 while Tele Danmark rose by the same margin to end at 271.
Overall turnover for the day was 771 million crowns.
China imported 250,000 tonnes of natural rubber, including latex, during the first seven months of the year, up 54.3 percent from the same 1995 period, the China Securities newspaper said on Tuesday.
In July, natural rubber imports were 30,000 tonnes, unchanged from June, it said, quoting customs statistics.
The January-July figures, however, appeared to indicate a revision of the earlier reported 210,000 tonnes of imports in the first half.
Imports of synthetic rubber in January-July were 196,910 tonnes, up 17.7 percent from the same 1995 period, the newspaper said. Imports in July alone were 30,033 tonnes, up from 24,855 tonnes in June, it said.
China's total imports of natural and synthetic rubber are expected to hit 650,000 tonnes in 1996, officials have said.
China imported 631,024 tonnes of rubber in 1995, including 320,000 tonnes of natural and 311,024 tonnes of synthetic rubber.
NOTE - Fujicopian Co Ltd is a leading developer and manufacturer of wide variety of recording printing media.
Philippines' Asiatrust Bank has set a price of 39.88 pesos per share for its initial public offering due to open on September 3, the issue's international lead manager PrimeEast Capital (HongKong) Ltd said.
The bank is offering 18.8 million shares, or a 27.1 percent public float and hopes to raise 750 million pesos. The offer closes September 16 and listing is set for October 7.
PrimeEast said money from the IPO would be used to fund the bank's loan portfolio expansion, for information technology upgrade as well as for opening of new branches.
"The issue is very attractive at a PER of 11 times prospective 1997 earnings on an expected EPS growth of 70 percent," PrimeEast's research head for the Philippines, Joy Quintos, said in a statement.
"This is a big discount to the average sector PER of 16.5 times for 1997, with an estimated average EPS growth of 31 percent," Quintos said.
Asiatrust's net earnings have grown by a compounded annual rate of 32 percent in the last five years and this is expected to grow by 70 percent and 31 percent in 1996 and 1997, the statement said. PrimeEast said a roadshow was planned in Hong Kong and Singapore later this month.
Pope John Paul, who suffered an abdominal problem last week, was in good health on Tuesday and took part in a seminar on Eastern Europe at his summer residence, the Vatican said.
Chief Vatican spokesman Joaquin Navarro-Valls told reporters he found the 76-year-old Pope in "good form and spirits" at the Castelgandolfo residence south of Rome.
He said the Polish Pontiff was taking active part in a two-day seminar on Slavic cultures attended by 17 academics and scientists from countries in Eastern Europe and elsewhere.
The spokesman said the Pope would return to the Vatican for several hours as planned on Wednesday for his weekly general audience.
The Pope entered hospital briefly for a checkup last week after complaining of pains and took antibiotics for the unspecified abdominal problem caused by a mild infection.
The infection also caused the Pope to suffer a mild fever.
A CAT (Computed Axial Tomography) scan showed nothing out of order, particularly in relation to a 1992 operation to remove an intestinal tumour that was starting to turn malignant.
The Pontiff looked rosy-cheeked but tired on Sunday when he last appeared in public at Castelgandolfo.
The Vatican has said visits to Hungary and France in September would go ahead as planned.
-- Brown Brothers said it cut its 1996 earnings per share view on Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc to $2.85 from $3.20.
-- Further details were not available.
CORESTaff Inc said Tuesday it had acquired Pacific Data Group,  which it described as the largest independent information technology company in Oregon for undisclosed terms.
COREStaff said it had signed a defnitive agreement to acquire all of the company's issued and outstanding stock in cash.
The temporary staffing company said it expected to close the acquisition by August 31 without giving any more details.
It said the founders of Pacific Data Group would keep running the business.
COREStaff said the addition of the acquired company to its information technology group COMSYS would boost pro forma 1995 revenues to about $220 million.
Merrill Lynch & Co said Tuesday it tentatively priced $8.4 million Dormitory Authority of the State of New York bonds, for the Hospital for Special Surgery, at a top yield of 6.05 percent in 2036.
ALL BONDS ARE PRICED AT PAR.
The award is expected Thursday, August 22, 1996.
Delivery is expected on September 12, 1996.
This issue is book entry through DTC.
Merrill Lynch & Co.
Clean tanker rates in the Middle East dropped slightly on Tuesday while other chartering sectors saw rates settle around last done levels, shipping brokers said.
Middle East activity was relatively lacklustre with rates on 55,000 tonners to Japan slipping to W165 from W170.
Brokers said the the market was slow and they expected rates to remain steady until the end of the week.
GSSK was seen taking a 70,000 tonne cargo on the Pacific Ruby to Japan at W145.
Mediterranean activity was hampered by a lack of suitable tonnage, particularly for naphtha carriers.
Gas oil carriers were seeing rates around W210 to carry 30,000 tonnes. Rates were placed at W230 about a week and a half ago.
"The rates for 30,000 tonne gas oil carriers are relatively elastic and erratic at the moment," said one broker.
UK/Continent chartering was slow on Tuesday with 20,000 tonners in particuarly finding employment hard to come by.
"We've seen some transatlantic fixing and some fixing on the 30,000 tonners, but its been quiet on the smaller ships," said one London broker.
Rates remained on a level of W200, but brokers said there was underlying strength in the market given a perceived lack of tonnage.
Rates in the Caribbean up U.S. coast market have steadily strengthened, supported by recent active fixing and thinning tonnage. A 30,000 tonne cargo fixed by Vitol Caribs up coast on the Petrobulk Cougar was placed at W215 was seen to reflect the market.
the Central Bank said in its latest bulletin.
data (figures in millions of dollars).
NOTES - Government interest payments and borrowing figures show hard currency only.
An opposition politician and another man were killed by unknown assailants on Tuesday at the politician's house in a Port-Au-Prince suburb, acccording to local radio stations.
Pasteur is considered the number two man in the opposition Mobilization for the National Development (MDN). Radio Metropole and Radio Kiskeya named Paster but not the other victim.
"Ten armed man in two vehicles shot and killed two civilians," Falt said. "One of the victims was handcuffed before he was killed."
Haitian national police and international police trainers rushed to the scene of the attack, according to Falt.
UN officials characterized the MDN party as closely associated with former members of the Haitian military. The assassination followed an attack at the Port-Au-Prince police station (on) Monday which was believed to have been carried out by ex-military personnel. One civilian was killed in that attack.
On Monday, Australis requested a trading halt to its shares as talks continued on fresh long term funding of Australia's first pay TV operator. Analysts have said Australis could be forced into liquidation if the group does not get more funding.
The negotiations between the company and a swag of investors were focussed on the demand by bondholders for an equity injection of up to A$100 million.
The bondholders, who backed a US$175 million issue last year, are seeking the equity injection before they will approve a further debt raising of US$225 million.
NOTE: Australian Provincial Newspapers Holdings Ltd is a publisher and is about 49 percent owned by Irish businessman Tony O'Reilly through family interests and his main newspaper group, Independent Newspapers Plc.
Mexico's UDI bonds were assigned at a price of 96.99539 UDIs for 1,008 days with a real return of 8.22 percent at the primary auction on Tuesday.
Two weeks ago the UDI bonds had a real return of 8.46 percent for 1,022 days.
Demand this week was 699.68 million UDIs compared to 150 million UDIs on offer from Banco de Mexico with a bid-to-cover ratio of 4.66. Two weeks ago demand was 934.11 million UDIs with a bid-to-cover ratio of 6.23.
The daily value of the UDI can be found on  MXAAN.
NOTE - Dickson Construction engages in construction and civil engineering in Hong Kong, specialising in public sector building projects.
Net is after an exceptional gain on translation of convertible bonds.
Total dividend for year is nil vs nil.
Kremlin infighting over a plan to bomb Grozny spilled into the open on Tuesday, close on the heels of new media speculation that President Boris Yeltsin was ill.
It raised doubts about the 65-year-old president's grip on power as his army threatened to launch a massive air and artillery bombardment of the Chechen capital on Thursday.
Russian analysts said, however, that Yeltsin was still in command and they saw the show of discord as a new twist to familiar Moscow manoeuvring over managing the fallout from the Chechen debacle.
Yeltsin's absence -- aides said he left for a short holiday and denied reports he had had a recurrence of heart trouble -- was by no means the first time he has dropped out of sight when trouble has boiled over in Chechnya.
Analysts said it could be a simple tactic to avoid blame for unpopular policies.
"Everyone is dodging responsibility, including Yeltsin," said Pavel Felgenhauer, a commentator at Sevodnya newspaper.
"I think his absence is political."
Alexander Lebed, Yeltsin's outspoken new Security Council secretary and his personal envoy to Chechnya, appeared to allege the president had been sidelined by officials intent on sabotaging Lebed's peace talks with the separatists.
The Security Council issued a statement questioning the authenticity of an order published by Yeltsin's spokesman on Monday that instructed Lebed to restore order in Grozny, seized by the rebels in a bloody battle that began on August 6.
The order bore only a facsimile signature and sanctioned the army's bombing plan, which would mean heavy casualites, it said.
Lebed himself, a tough-talking general who in two months has earned a reputation as something of a loose cannon in the Kremlin, did not sign the statement. Felgenhauer said he might even disown it later if it backfired.
That leaves the question of why it was issued.
Viktor Kremenyuk, a political analyst at Moscow's USA and Canada Institute, said he had no doubt Yeltsin did approve Monday's order and, despite health problems, was in control of major policy decisions, including those on Chechnya.
He saw the Security Council statement as an attempt by Lebed to regain the initiative from his Kremlin opponents in settling the Chechen crisis.
"Lebed is trying to recover ground," Kremenyuk said.
Lebed, who won praise from the separatists after two visits to the region last week, has staked his brief political career on making peace -- although the two sides seem as far apart as ever on the Chechens' basic demand to secede.
Some commentators say Lebed is opposed by a "party of war" in the Kremlin which has blocked talks in order to prolong the war and the profits which powerful Russians have made from it.
Felgenhauer, however, warned against making too much of faction-fighting in the Kremlin.
He said Yeltsin was seeking a way to limit the political damage from the war without granting Chechen independence, and to save face after the army was humiliated in Grozny this month.
Felgenhauer said Yeltsin had given his subordinates a free hand to achieve that and the threat of force was as much a part of that process as negotiations.
"It's a high-stakes poker game and Lebed knows that," he said, comparing the army's plan to bomb Grozny and Lebed's talks to the tactic of interrogators adopting "Mr Nice and Mr Nasty" tactics to break a prisoner's resistance.
Lebed, with a gravel voice and a permanent scowl, may seem miscast as Mr Nice. But he has thrown himself into the role.
Tuesday's statement may simply be his way to avoid being upstaged by a fellow general, Konstantin Pulikovsky, currently commanding the army in Chechnya and playing Russia's Mr Nasty.
Commerce Department report of U.S. international trade.
Trade in goods and services, balance of payments basis (seasonally adjusted, in billions of dollars).
Breakdown of goods and services on a BOP basis (seasonally adjusted, in billions of dollars).
Trade in goods on a Census basis, seasonally adjusted.
Unadjusted Census basis, in millions of dollars.
The volume of total crude oil and petroleum product imports fell in June to 291.9 million barrels from 305.2 million in May. The total value fell to $5.33 billion in June from $5.93 billion. These data are available only on a Census basis.
The price of imported crude oil fell to an average $18.02 a barrel in June from $18.95 per barrel in May. The value of June crude oil imports fell to $4.24 billion from $4.61 billion.
It also said the second quarter 1996 U.S. deficit with Japan of $10.5 billion was the lowest quarterly gap in five years.
Referring to the 3.3 percent decline in overall U.S. imports in June, the department said that was the largest drop since the goods and services monthly series began in January 1992.
The balance-of-payments basis for recording U.S. trade via receipts from and payments to other countries includes adjustments for military shipments, nonmonetary gold, and inland freight trade with Canada and Mexico.
Census basis data uses information collected by the U.S. Customs Service on goods shipped across U.S. borders.
Following is the China Interbank Offered Rate (CHIBOR) for Tuesday, issued by the official Xinhua news agency on behalf of the People's Bank of China, the central bank.
The figures represent weighted averages and not closing prices and they are annual percentage rates.
The central bank does not post volumes.
Traders said the two shortest contracts rose sharply due to a new share issue today and another on Thursday.
Non-banking financial institutions continued selling on the market, but the volume of loans was smaller than a few weeks ago, pushing most rates up, they said.
Some big cities, including Shanghai, remain the main lenders, but borrowers were more varied than the flood-hit cities of the past few weeks, they added.
Bulgaria's cabinet decided late on Monday to close the debt-ridden Plama oil refinery if an investor does not buy it by December, Industry Minister Lyubomir Dachev said.
"The refinery will be liquidated if the attempt for its privatisation fails," Dachev told reporters at the end of the extraordinary cabinet meeting.
Last week the cabinet decided to sell a stake in Plama, which is among 64 state firms scheduled for closure as part of the government's economic reform programme agreed with international financial institutions.
The cabinet has authorised the opening of Plama's privatisation procedure and to decide the size of the stake to be offered.
Dachev said Bulgaria's Euroenergy was among the most serious candidates to buy a stake in Plama, Bulgaria's second biggest refinery located in the northern town of Pleven.
However, any future buyer should service Plama's debts, which totalled some nine billion levs last month, officials said.
"Plama will be sold by the end of this month," said a Privatisation Agency official, who declined to be named.
The refinery stopped production last November due to a lack of cash to buy crude. Earlier this year Bulgaria's Biohim Bank blocked credits of $40 million that it had granted the refinery against its assets.
Plama produces mainly lubricating oils and meets some 80 percent of the country's needs.
The 25-year-old refinery signed an agreement in 1993 with France's Elf Aquitaine to sell lubricating oils for ships.
The government had come under heavy pressure from trade unions, politicians and businessmen to remove Plama from its list of firms marked for closure.
Bulgaria's two biggest trade unions offered to buy Plama for a token $1 in order to keep it running.
Foreign oil firms are known to have expressed interest in buying Plama.
Year to June 30.
Dividend carries 7.39 cps imputation credit.
CME live cattle futures slipped on profit taking after setting new contract highs in August and October and ended mixed while feeder cattle tumbled late with November down the 1.500 cent limit in the closing range.
Strong cash cattle markets sparked demand for live cattle futures early and August climbed to a new high of 69.750 cents per lb and October rose to 71.700 cents before slipping late. Futures closed 0.500 cent higher to 0.275 lower with October off 0.100 at 71.275 cents per lb.
Packers stepped up bids by $2 per cwt for fed cattle and cattle feeders responded by selling at the $68 level. But futures failed to rise further after setting new highs as the sharp premium of futures to cash encouraged profit taking.
"Live cattle (futures) have got a decent premium built in and its just wait-and-see time if cash is going to continue to improve," said Doug Harper, Brock Associates Inc Senior Lievestock analyst.
July placement estimates ranged 100 to 116 percent of a year ago and July marketings 100.5 to 106 percent.
ADM Investor Services, Lind-Waldock, LFG and Rosenthal Collins sold October late while Refco and RBH bought, pit sources said.
In live cattle options, selling of deep in the money calls in October early, was noted. Commercials did risk reversals in February, buying puts and selling calls, traders added.
Feeder cattle futures were weighed down by Monday's late rally in corn futures which offset the easier tone to corn futures Tuesday. However, futures showed most of their weakness in the last few minutes of trade as a fairly large sell order in November sparked a break into the close.
Selling by LFG in November touched off sell stops in that month and locals turned sellers in nearbys. The stops took November down the daily limit to 63.000 cents in its closing range while other months broke to new days lows, traders said.
Smith Barney, ADM Investor Services and R.J. O'Brien sold October early while ING and locals bought, traders said. Lind-Waldock bought November early and sold on the break.
Feeder cattle closed 0.350 to 1.250 cent lower with October off 0.650 at 63.175 cents, traders said.
Grant Geophysical Inc said on Tuesday it had received two seismic data acquisition contracts in South America valued at just under $20 million.
One of the pacts is for work in Venezuela and marks Grant's reentry into this significant seismic acquisition market, said Grant, which provides seismic data to oil and gas companies.
Both contracts will begin in the fourth quarter and extend into the first half of 1997, Grant said.
The Chinese yuan closed down on Tuesday for the first time in a month, at 8.3065 against the U.S. dollar, from Monday's 8.3059, on the Shanghai-based interbank foreign exchange market.
It opened slightly lower at 8.3060 and hit an intra-day high of 8.3055 early in the session. It then consolidated around 8.3065 for most of the session, hitting a low of 8.3080 15 minutes before closing.
Trading was active, with most done at 8.3065.
"The central bank intervened to slow the yuan's rise," said one dealer. "But strong pro-yuan sentiment has gradually weakened over the past week."
Dealers expect the yuan to move around the 8.3060 level in the short term due to central bank intervention.
The yuan closed slightly up at 7.6804 from 7.6855 against 100 Japanese yen and down at 1.0740 from 1.0730 against the Hong Kong dollar.
NOTE: Both Q2 1996 and 1995 include deduction of goodwill amortization of $0.10 a share.
NOTE: Full name is Knape & Vogt Manufacturing Co.
Q4 1996 results include $0.26 a share loss from continued operations and $0.52 a share loss from discontinued operations, both including charges.
Q4 1995 results include $0.31 a share profit from continued operations and $0.06 a share income from discontinued operations.
NOTE: Full-year 1996 results after $0.48 a share in charges.
Full-year 1996 results include $0.53 (company corrects from $0.63) a share profit from continuing operations and $0.52 a share loss from discontinued operations.
Full-year 1995 results after $1.29 a share income from continuing operations and $0.11 a share income from discontinued operations.
NOTE- No dividend was payable by the mobile phone operator.
Japanese stocks were slightly firmer in London in thin and featureless trading.
"The market is up on the back of the FTSE (reaching new record highs) and Wall Street has a firmer bias, but there's no volume," said one dealer.
By 1335 GMT, the Nikkei 50 average was up 2.85 points in London to 1,418.90.
In Tokyo, the benchmark Nikkei 225 average rose 20.60 points to 21,127.01.
NOTE: Pro-forma results reflect 250 million post-IPO shares outstanding and interest expense on long-term debt.
The Australian government's total borrowing programme for 1996/97 is expected to be around A$7.0 billion in the year to end-June 1997, the Australian Treasury said in 1996/97 Budget papers.
This was A$1.0 billion above the mimimum needed to meet the financing task, which was estimated at A$6.0 billion in the year to end-June 1997 down from A$13.8 billion in 1995/96.
The financing task comprised an estimated headline budget surplus of A$500 million in 1996/97 offsetting scheduled bond maturities of around A$4.6 billion, foreign currency debt repayments of A$700 million and A$1.2 billion in payments associated with Commonwealth public trading enterprises.
Aggregate Treasury bond issuance was expected to be around A$6.0 to A$7.0 billion in 1995/96, down from A$7.8 billion in 1995/96, providing scope to introduce a new benchmark line.
However, market feedback will be an important determinant in the final decision, it added.
A Treasury indexed bond issuance programme of around A$500 million to A$1.0 billion is envisaged for 1996/97, with the final amopunt subject to market conditions.
Issuance of Treasury adjustable rate bonds is expected to be around A$1.0 billion. Again, the focus will be on a programme that will best support and contribute to the long-term development of this market, Treasury said.
The possible extension of the Commonwealth floating-rate curve beyond the present October 2000 line will be considered, it added.
However, current intentions are for a reduction in the volume of Treasury notes outstanding at end-June 1997 to below A$15 billion, compared to end-June 1996 levels of A$15.3 billion.
As in previous years, it was the intention to maintain a small, core holding of U.S. dollar exposure in the government's debt portfolio, Treasury said.
Treasury said the most effective way of obtaining US$ exposure had been to issue domestically and swap the A$ proceeds into US$. Although not currently planned, a return to direct issuance offshore by the Commonwealth remains an option should it become advantageous, Treasury said.
Should that happen, there would be a corresponding reduction in the domestic borrowing programme.
The current practice of holding Treasury Bond tenders every four to six weeks would continue, as would the practice of weighting Bond issue towards the first half of the financial year, Treasury said.
Werner Dieter, former chief executive of Mannesmann AG, said he would seek legal advice before deciding whether to accept a deal offered by prosecutors.
In an interview with the newspaper Boersen Zeitung published on Tuesday, Dieter said he had not yet received the prosecutors' offer directly, but had only learned of it through news media.
According to the reports, prosecutors offered to drop their investigation against Dieter, who stepped down as management board chief in July 1994, if he agreed to pay a fine of one million marks ($671,000). He is suspected of having steered Mannesmann contracts to a family-run company.
Shares in the Australian Stock Exchange's banking and insurance sectors continued their climb on Tuesday as investors bought in ahead of a federal budget widely tipped to be a boon for interest rate sensitive stocks.
By midesssion, National Australia Bank Ltd (NAB), Australia and New Zealand Banking Group Ltd (ANZ) and Commonwealth Bank of Australia (CBA) had all topped six month highs.
NAB shares reached A$12.70, ANZ shares climbed to A$6.70 while CBA shares reached A$11.11 before profit takers emerged.
German utility group Viag AG said on Tuesday its net profit for 1996 ought at least to match year-ago levels although group pretax profit fell 21 percent to 1.178 billion marks ($790.8 million) in the first half.
The group said in a statement that its operating profit had "clearly improved" in the first half of 1996 and a sharp drop in its pre-tax profit was due purely to special income factors.
In 1995, around 40 percent of Viag's first-half profit was the result of one-off gains from the sale of its 43.4 percent stake in Germany's biggest paper maker PWA and other major changes in shareholdings.
Viag said its group sales rose to 21.803 billion marks from 21.375 billion in the first half of 1996 and that its operating profit rose 10 percent in the period.
Sales in its chemicals, energy and logistics divisions advanced in the period while packaging sales dropped to 5.9 billion marks from 6.3 billion marks.
Investment in fixed assets dropped to 792 million marks from 913 million marks and group spending on participations dropped dramatically to 178 million marks from 1.49 billion.
In the first half of 1995, Viag and its units bought several major companies including SBI Systems Bio-Industries, bought by Viag's chemicals division and a majority stake in Computer 2000.
U.S. Commerce Department report of unroasted, roasted and soluble coffee imports.
Note - Coffees include decaffeinated and nondecaffeinated. Soluble includes instant and nonflavored, plus extracts, essences and concentrates.
Project Software & Development Inc said on Tuesday that Robert Daniels has resigned as chairman and chief executive officer of the company and has been named chairman of the executive committee of the board of directors.
The company said that Dean Goodermote, who was president of the Project Software, has been named chairman.
It said it has retained an executive search firm to seek a chief executive officer.
The company said that on an operating basis, it will continue to be managed by Paul Birch, executive vice president and chief financial officer, and Norman Drapeau, executive vice president, World-Wide Sales and Marketing.
Baloise Insurance Group said it had raised its majority stake in Italian insurer Norditalia Assicurazioni S.p.A. from 77 percent to 95 percent.
A Baloise statement said the public offering launched six weeks ago for a complete takeover of Norditalia had consolidated its position at the Italian unit and given it more leeway for strategic action.
Bombardier Inc said on Tuesday that it expects to announce by the end of its third quarter 30 to 35 more firm orders for its Canadair Regional Jet.
"What we expect is that by the end of the next quarter we are going to fill our order backlog for next year. For that we require a good number of orders between now and the end of October. I would say between 30 and 35 would be very satisfying," Bombardier spokesman Michel Lord told Reuters.
In the conference call, Beaudoin said that he expected Bombardier to announce in the third quarter ended October 31 firm orders for the Regional Jet that would fill production up to January 31, 1998. The current order backlog for the Regional Jet is 40, and Bombardier is producing the 50-seat jet at a rate of five each month.
Lord said most of the new orders are likely to come from North American airlines.
Lord said Bombardier is in active discussions with airlines on ordering the Regional Jet, but he declined to name them.
"We are having a lot of serious negotiations. If only half of them materialized, we could quite well fill up our 1997 year," Lord said.
Margaret Cornish-Kehoe, analyst at ScotiaMcLeod Inc, said Beaudoin's forecast was well received as it was the first time Bombardier made a specific forecast on boosting its firm order book for the Regional Jet.
Some analysts had been worried in recent weeks that Bombardier had not updated its order backlog for the Regional Jet from the 40 announced several months ago. In heavy trading last week and on Monday and Tuesday, Bombardier's Class B shares recovered much of the ground lost earlier on those concerns.
Cornish-Kehoe said that during the conference call Beaudoin also said he was expecting Bombardier to announce in the next few months that it would be boosting the order book for the de Havilland Dash-8 to the extent that production volumes would be filled for the next fiscal year, ending January 31, 1998.
National Bucharest won 1-0 on aggregate.
Lyngby won 2-0 on aggregate.
Chornomorets won 4-2 on aggregate.
Aggregate score 3-3. Spartak qualified on away goals rule.
Trabzonspor qualified 5-3 on aggregate.
Rapid Bucharest qualified 2-0 on aggregate.
Graz qualified 7-1 on aggregate.
Aberdeen won 5-4 on aggregate.
Attendance: 3,159.
Odense won 9-1 on aggregate.
Aggregate score 4-4. Barry won 4-2 on penalties after extra time.
NOTE: Q2 same-store sales fell 4.9 pct.
Periods ended Aug 3, 1996 vs July 29, 1995.
Sun International Hotels Ltd. has agreed to acquire Griffin Gaming & Entertainment Inc., formerly Resorts International, in a stock exchange worth about $210 million, the companies said Monday.
Entertainer and investor Merv Griffin, chairman of Griffin Gaming, controls about 25 percent of the stock of Griffin Gaming, which operates a casino hotel in Atlantic City, N.J.
Sun decided to acquire Griffin Gaming because of the planned expansion of Griffin's Resorts hotel and the lure of gaining an immediate presence in Atlantic City, N.J., Sun Chairman Sol Kerzner said.
"We believe teaming up with Merv Griffin is a dynamic way for Sun International to enter the Atlantic City market and combines Sun International's development strengths and Merv Griffin's legendary entertainment skills," Kerzner, who is also chief executive of Bahamas-based Sun International, said in a statement.
Kerzner said in a conference call that the company might not have been interested in pursuing the acquisition without the expansion plans.
Griffin Gaming's proposed $200 million expansion of the 662-room Resorts Hotel would make the complex as large as the Taj Mahal casino, Atlantic City's largest. The Taj Mahal is owned by Trump Hotels & Casino Resorts Inc.
Resorts is being enlarged by 700 rooms and 70,000 square feet of casino space, the company said.
The prospect of Sun opening a Connecticut gaming facility near the Foxwoods Casino added to the deal's allure for Griffin's shareholders, Griffin Gaming Chief Executive Thomas Gallagher said.
The acquisition would reunite Sun's Paradise Island property in the Bahamas, which once part of Resorts, with Griffin Gaming.
Griffin Gaming Chairman Merv Griffin, who will hold about 4 percent of Sun International, said he was impressed with what Kerzner did with Paradise Island after Sun bought it.
Griffin has owned Resorts International for eight years, during which time the company restructured twice, Griffin said. A Griffin spokesman said separately the company had declared bankruptcy under one of the reorganizations.
"Our merger with Sun International will begin a brand new era for Resorts," Merv Griffin said. "Sol Kerzner and I have joined to create a formidable leader in the gaming industry in which I will have a significant shareholding.
For Sun International, the deal puts the company into the Atlantic City market faster than its plan to buy land adjoining a proposed MGM Grand Inc. resort, Kerzner said.
Under the deal, each share of Griffin common stock will be traded for 0.4324 ordinary shares of Sun International. Sun International's stock closed at $51.875 on Friday, implying a purchase price of $22.43 for each share of Griffin's common stock.
On Monday, Sun International stock fell 12.5 cents to $51.75, while Griffin rose 37.5 cents to $12.25. The deal was announced after the close of trading.
NOTE - General Co Ltd is a major producer of thermal transfer ribbons.
Blue-chip stocks bounded higher Tuesday as the Federal Reserve's decision to keep interest rates unchanged removed a possible roadblock to the market's continued rally.
The Dow Jones industrial average closed up 21.82 points at 5,721.26, putting the blue-chip index within a stone's throw of its record closing high of 5,778.00 set on May 22.
In the broader market, advancing issues led declines 1,230 to 1,068 on moderate volume of 334 million shares on the New York Stock Exchange.
The central bank's policy-setting Federal Open Market Committee ended its meeting in early afternoon and kept interest rates unchanged, allowing Wall Street to hurdle any lingering fears of a surprise increase.
"It was as expected. If we can neutralise the interest rate factor here, prices can go higher," said Richard Cripps, chief market strategist at Legg Mason Wood Walker.
The Fed had been expected to hold interest rates steady amid signs the economy was slowing after strong second quarter growth without inflation heating up.
But investors still preferred to hold back until the policy makers announced that they were keeping short term rates unchanged.
The independent Fed also sought to stay out of the line of political fire in the approach to the Nov. 5 presidential and congressional elections.
After growing at its fastest pace in two years in the second quarter, the economy looks to have slowed recently as the housing market has weakened and retail sales have stalled.
Blue-chips actually pared their gains shortly after the Fed news.
"For a few seconds it looked like the buy the rumour, sell the fact. But then the Dow came back up and it's hard to find any indices doing anything spectacular," said Joseph Barthel, chief investment strategist at Fahnestock & Co.
"It's a Dow-inspired rally and in some ways because of the liquidity factor, visibility and safety," he added.
Meanwhile, weakness in high-technology stocks pressured the tech-studded Nasdaq Composite index, which closed down 6.24 points at 1,124.67.
Tobacco stocks were mostly higher, despite news that Kansas became the 11th state and Arizona the 12th to sue the tobacco industry to recover Medicaid costs of smokers. Philip Morris rose 1-5/8 to 91-1/2, RJR Nabisco slipped 1/4 to 26-1/2, smokeless tobacco maker UST rose 1/8 to 31-3/4, Loews added 1/4 to 77-7/8.
HBO & Co., a maker of software for the medical industry, slumped 5-1/4 to 56-1/2 after a brokerage house downgraded its opinion of the company's performance.
Griffin Gaming soared 7-1/8 to 19-3/8 on news of its merger with Sun International Hotels. Sun International fell 3-5/8 to 48-1/8.
Tylan General rose 2-7/8 to 13-1/8. The company said it is putting itself up for sale and added that it has already received some inquiries from potential buyers.
First Data fell 3-1/2 to 77-3/8. Morgan Stanley trimmed its 1996 and 1997 earnings estimates for the firm.
Among technology issues, Cisco Systems lost 1 to 55, 3Com lost 1-15/16 to 43 and Intel was off 1-1/4 to 79-1/2.
The Standard & Poor's composite index of 500 stocks fell 0.89 to 665.69. The American Stock Exchange index rose 1.69 to 559.29.
The NYSE Composite index of all listed common stocks fell 0.03 to 356.61. The average share was unchanged.
The Wilshire Associates Equity Index -- the market value of NYSE, American and Nasdaq issues -- was 6,504.569 down 7.949 or 0.12 percent.
The Zimbabwean government said a civil servants strike that began on Tuesday was illegal and ordered workers back to their jobs.
Public Service, Labour and Social Welfare Minister Florence Chitauro said her government would only negotiate with the Public Service Association (PSA) once it ended the strike that hurt the southern Africa state's social services.
"As far as we are concerned, this strike is illegal and we are ordering all those workers who did not go to work today to report for duty tomorrow," she told a news conference.
"If they do not take heed to this call the heads of ministries are required to take the necessary disciplinary action according to the public service regulations," she added.
Earlier, PSA executive secretary John Makoni told reporters "a lot" of the country's 180,000 civil servants had heeded his PSA union's call "to go to work and walk out".
The chairman of the Public Service Commission (PSC), Mariyawanda Nzuwah, described the strike as irresponsible and unacceptable, saying negotiation channels had not been exhausted.
But Makoni said the government had left the union with no option because it was not prepared to look at workers's demands for increases of around 25-30 percent.
"We will not go back to work until the PSC and the Ministry of Public Service, Labour and Social Welfare reviews the situation," he said.
Only senior officials were in Zimbabwean government offices on Tuesday while many other civil servants milled around or marched their work locations demonstrating.
Nurses at state hospitals around the country also joined the strike, but the government filled some of the gaps with personnel from the army and the local Red Cross medical division.
Orange County, Calif.,'s former Treasurer Robert Citron testified on Tuesday that he never discussed with the former budget director an alleged scheme to divert funds from cities and schools.
Former Orange County Budget Director Ronald Rubino, 44, was indicted by a county grand jury in December for allegedly aiding Citron in diverting funds from other government agencies for the county's benefit.
Orange County filed for protection under Chapter 9 of the federal Bankruptcy Code on December 6, 1994 after sustaining investment losses of more than $1.6 billion. The county emerged from bankruptcy in June.
Rubino, who has denied any wrongdoing, faces up to nine years in prison if convicted on the felony counts. Rubino is one of six former and current county officials formally accused with wrongdoing in connection with the bankruptcy.
Citron testified that Merrill Lynch & Co bond salesman Michael Stamenson was aware of the alleged scheme.
"I told Mr. Michael Stamenson of Merrill Lynch that we were doing this," Citron testified. Citron said he informed Stamenson monthly about the true pool earnings versus the interest rate reported to investors in the county portfolio.
In response, Merrill Lynch said Stamenson never received any reports showing different investment pool earnings.
During his testimony, Citron alleged that assistant county Treasurer Matthew Raabe came up with the idea of diverting the interest from cities and schools to the county's benefit.
"Mr. Raabe came to me and said we were currently earning tremendous amounts of interest and that, if we kept reporting these very high interest returns, the pool investors would see something wrong in that and pull the money out," Citron said.
Citron said Raabe kept tabs on what the county investment pool was earning and what he "was going to report" to investors or participants in the county-run portfolio.
In May 1995, Raabe was indicted on several counts, including misappropriating public funds. Raabe has denied wrongdoing and faces trial in September.
Raabe's attorney was not immediately available to comment.
During his testimony, Citron also described his relationship with Rubino.
"He would sometimes talk about county problems, lack of funds for this or that," Citron said. "Rubino was well thought of in the county."
U.S. stock index futures finished mixed and September Standard and Poor's 500 futures lower after a session of thin, quiet trading.
Trading was unremarkable except for a midday flurry of activity that set the session's high and low after the Fed announced it would keep interest rates unchanged.
Traders said selling interest was heaviest at 668.00 and 668.50, with small stops noted when September dropped through 667.00.
"The locals bid it up until they hit some stops, there was no followthrough at 668.50 and we had some good selling coming in," said an S&P 500 trader. "Some resting stop orders to the downside were triggered and the week low of 666.40 held," allowing September to drift higher again, he said.
September S&Ps posted an inside trading day, indicative of a market in consolidation.
"It is very light and roughly between 669.00 and 666.00, a range which is fairly tight for this market," an S&P trader said.
He said a bullish bias was underpinning the market, but September needed to work through the 669.20 to 675.00 zone before any real upside progress can be made.
One S&P trader noted a bit more action than usual in the Sep/Dec spread.
South African Reserve Bank Governor Chris Stals said on Tuesday he disagreed that the future direction of the rand had any relation to the past performance of the old financial rand.
"It makes no sense to try and work out an index value of the rand based on the financial rand. The situation is completely different today," he said in a telephone interview.
The rand was knocked on Monday following a study by Ivor Jones, Roy & Co/Deutsche Morgan Grenfell which said it was as much as 12 percent overvalued against the dollar, based on a "composite rand index".
The composite index incorporated the historical characteristics of the commercial rand and the financial rand, abolished last year.
"I think the underlying assumptions in that calculation are very difficult to justify," Stals said.
Top Chinese motorcycle maker China Jialing Industrial Group reported on Tuesday that first-half net profit was 83.064 million yuan ($10 million), down from 149.368 million in the same 1995 period, on turnover of 1.912 billion yuan, down from 2.237 billion.
In a statement, the company blamed a weak market, tight credit which put up the costs of funds, a chaotic market with fakes and unfair competition and price-cutting.
Araxas Energy Corp said Tuesday it had acquired assets and tracts of land in the Gulf of Mexico with proved reserves totaling 3.4 MMBOE with an estimated acquisition price of just over $4 per BOE.
Araxas said it had taken over Gulfland Industries Inc and nearly all of the assets of Gulfland Resources Inc, which include a 70 percent working interest in Main Pass 35 located in Louisiana State Waters.
Araxas also said it had acquired additional interests in Main Pass 35 and High Island 30L as well as contiguous tracts located in Texas State Waters.
Araxas will operate both acquisitions.
Gulfland Industries is a contract operator of offshore oil and gas production platforms that operates 22 platforms in the Gulf of Mexico.
The U.S. hog/corn ratio for the week ended Aug 17 was 12.6 versus 13.3 in the previous week and 18.4 in the corresponding week a year ago, the U.S. Agriculture Department said.
The steer/corn ratio in the week was 13.5 versus 13.9 in the previous week and 22.7 in the year-ago week.
The ratio represents the number of bushels of corn that can be bought at Omaha for 100 lbs of hog or steer.
Hurricane Dolly raced over Mexico's Yucatan peninsula on Tuesday with 75 mph (120 kph) winds and up to 10 inches (25 cm) of rain, forecasters at the National Hurricane Center said.
At 2 p.m. EDT (1800 GMT), the center of Hurricane Dolly was located at latitude 19.3 north, longitude 87.9 west, about 60 miles (96 km) north-northeast of Chetumal, Mexico, the hurricane center said.
The storm was moving to the west-northwest at 13 mph (21 kph).
It was expected to weaken slightly as it passed over the Yucatan peninsula, but forecasters said there was a good chance of strengthening once the storm moved over the warm waters of the Gulf of Mexico.
Hurricane-force winds extended about 25 miles (40 km) from the center and tropical storm-force winds extended about 175 miles (280 km) from the center. The storm carried 5-10 inches (13-25 cm) of rain, forecasters said.
Dolly was expected to approach the Texas-Mexico border on Thursday.
A hurricane warning was in effect for the east coast of the Yucatan peninsula and parts of the Belize coast were under a tropical storm watch.
Nicaragua's National Assembly on Monday rejected a proposed election reform that would have postponed the Oct. 20 presidential elections by two weeks.
In a letter sent to legislators, Vice-Secretary of the National Assembly Jaime Bonilla said under the constitution the reform could not be passed by the current parliament, and needed to wait until the next legislature is formed.
The rejected bill contained six election reforms, including the postponement of the election till Nov. 3, 1996.
A group of presidential candidates for small parties, led by Alfredo Cesar of the UNO '96 Alliance, had proposed postponing the elections after the government failed to give the parties their campaign funding by the legal deadline.
The parties received the first instalment of their campaign money two weeks after the start of the election campaign.
The smaller parties argued the delay put them at a disadvantage, and had been engineered by the Liberal Alliance, the right-wing party headed by Arnoldo Aleman that is ahead in the polls.
"This was a political game. Here are the interests of the Liberal Alliance who don't want anyone else to be able to lift their head to threaten them," one of the bill's sponsors, conservative presidential candidate Miriam Arguello, told reporters.
But the reforms were opposed by powerful groups in Nicaragua, including President Violeta Chamorro, the two leading political parties, the Catholic Church and most international observer groups, who argued postponing the election date would hurt the vote's credibility.
Irish government bonds were barely moved in thin late trade on Tuesday as the market awaited news of a possible rise in U.S. rates at the Federal Open Market Committee (FOMC) meeting, dealers said.
"The market is very little changed on the opening levels," one dealer said.
By 1510 GMT, the 8.00 percent bond due 2000 had eased six pence from Monday's close to 103.98 to yield 6.74 percent while the 8.00 percent bond due 2006 rose eight pence on the day to 103.40 to yield 7.37 percent.
The one-month money market rate, which has remained above the key 5.50 level since the beginning of August, was at 5.56/5.68 compared with 5.56/5.59 at the close.
Dealers said if the FOMC leaves U.S. rates unchanged then the next focus will be on the Bundesbank meeting on Thursday.
"Should the FOMC not raise rates, then the Bundesbank will become the main focus of attention. So, all told, everything depends on what happens in the United States later today," the dealer added.
Under the agreement, the private, New Jersey-based investor group will acquire all of the common stock of FoxMeyer Drug Co from FoxMeyer Corp, a subsidiary of FoxMeyer Health.
FoxMeyer will receive $10 million cash upon closing, expected on or before October 19, and a $15 million, five-year note convertible into a 15 percent interest in the common stock of the new entity, FoxMeyer added.
The investor group and Neuman Health Services Inc have reached an agreement in principle for a joint venture to manage and operate FoxMeyer Drug, FoxMeyer said.
Secondhand tonnage brokers reported the sale of the following vessels.
SOLD FOR DEMOLITION - Prosperity No: 1 - (built 1973) 127,209 dwt sold to Indian breakers for $200 per ldt.
Murano - (built 1974) 117,863 dwt sold to Indina breakers for $202 per ldt.
Port Talbot - (built 1970) 81,612 dwt sold to Indian breakers for $182 per ldt.
Alinda - (built 1974) 53,349 dwt sold to Indian breakers for $194 per ldt.
Asked whether the government would introduce a supplementary budget in the event of an extraordinary session of parliament later this year, Kubo said: "I realise there are many views on this. We must keep watch over various economic movements and make no mistakes."
But for now, he said, the ministry had not changed its view that it does not yet need to start considering an extra budget.
Asked about a Japanese newspaper report on Tuesday that Washington had asked Tokyo to delay for six years the entry of Japanese insurance firms' subsidiaries into the so-called third sector of the industry covering accidents and health care, Kubo said he could not reveal details of negotiations.
"This is an issue in which both sides have to come up with a compromise when bilateral talks resume again," Kubo said.
Japan and the United States are at odds over the entry of Japanese insurance firms' subsidiaries into the third-sector niche market, where foreign firms have a strong foothold. The talks are scheduled to resume in September.
Colombia's peso extended last Friday's gains in active trading on the country's interbank market, closing up 9.85 pesos on the dollar at 1,038.15.
"It was a volatile session," one dealer said, noting that peso had weakened early in the day as oversold banks and the public sector demanded dollars.
It swung back up ahead of the close, however, on what dealers described as a flood of dollar sales by oil and coffee exporters.
The peso, which gained eight pesos on the dollar Friday, traded in a 1,035.50 to 1,047.60 range in Tuesday's trade and dealers reported a high-than-average 437 trades for a total of $176 million.
The peso has appreciated significantly since late June when it traded around 1,070 to the dollar.
The central bank, which is fiercely independent and likes a stronger currency as a curb against inflation, has insisted that it will not alter the exchange rate bands it sets daily to undercut the peso to the administration's tune.
CHINA TIMES - Vice President Lien Chan may be in Hungary for private visit.
Taiwan severs diplomatic ties with Niger after Niger renews diplomatic relations with China.
UNITED DAILY NEWS - Vice President Lien Chan flies to Kiev and will meet with Ukraine's head of state.
Five people injured in gas well burst at Chinese Petroleum Corp oil well.
COMMERCIAL TIMES - Taiwan stock market plunges 181 points due to uncertain relations across the Taiwan strait.
Chiang Ping-kun, head of the Council for Economic Planning and Development, says relations with mainland China will move at steady pace and government will not change direction.
ECONOMIC DAILY NEWS - Taiwan central bank to study plan to control capital outflows to China.
Taiwan severs ties with Niger.
* AT&T Corp president Alex Mandl resigns to head tiny start-up company, Associated Communications Corp.
* Mexican economy grew 7.2 percent last quarter in a sign of revival.
* The new Nasdaq stock market, recovering from a price-fixing scandal, is likely to be very different from what it had been.
*  Levi Strauss & Co and other apparel makers are moving to meet men's changing tastes.
* Sun International Hotels Ltd agrees to buy television celebrity Merv Griffin's Griffin Gaming & Entertainment Inc for $210 million in stock.
* Manufactured Home Communities Inc offers to buy rival Chateau Properties Inc for $387.3 million in cash. The offer is an attempt to derail Chateau's plans to buy ROC Communities Inc.
* SmithKline Beecham Plc will pay $1.0 million a year to the American Cancer Society and put the society's name on SmithKline's Nicoderm smoking cessation patches.
* Japanese companies are now producing machines the size of a grain of rice.
* If elected president, Bob Dole would face a tough task in balancing the budget while cutting taxes.
* New York state officials have approved the merger of the Metropolitan Life Insurance Co and the  New England Mutual Life Insurance Co.
* The Dow Jones Industrial Average rose 9.99 points to 5,699.44. The Nasdaq composite index fell 2.74 points to 1,130.91.
* Harrah's Entertainment Inc shares tumble up to 14 percent after an analyst cuts his rating.
* Toys R Us Inc. second-quarter earnings fall.
* A money manager is challenging Wallace Computer Services Inc's takeover defense.
* People are fighting over the use of blues singer B.B. King's name for nightclubs.
Note: The consolidated results were unaudited. PT PP London Sumatra Indonesia is among the largest plantation firms in Indonesia.
The company said the results had exceeded half year net profit projections of 27.30 billion rupiah made earlier this year.
It said the increase was largely due to higher crude palm oil prices and a decrease in operating expenses.
Lonsum said the net realised price for crude palm oil for the period was $498 a tonne compared with $459 used in projections.
It said declines in operating expenses were due to consolidation of sales, marketing and management functions.
The firm said the full impact of higher prices on revenue was dampened by a decrease in sales of rubber due to unseasonal wintering and rain.
It said the change in wintering patterns meant that rubber production and hence sales should be higher than expected in the second half of this year.
Rubber sales fell by 11 percent to 7,561 tonnes against projections and 24 percent against the same period in 1995.
It said the firm achieved planted hectarage of 6,261 hectares of palm oil and 1,930 hectares of rubber. It said it was part due to the extended wet season in south Sumatra.
The firm said it was confident of meeting the full year forecast for 1996 of 73.09 billion rupiah.
It said 48.0 percent of crude palm oil production for the second half of 1996 was already sold forward at an average price of $542 as well as rubber being hedged at an average price of $1,335 per tonne.
A total of 45 percent of Czech voters would vote for a Senate candidate in November based on the individual's merits and regardless of which party the person represents, a poll released on Tuesday showed.
But 41 percent said they would vote for any candidate tied to the political party they like, the survey conducted in August by a state run Institute for Public Opinion Research (IVVM) said.
Altogether 65 percent of Czech citizens said they would vote in the Senate elections scheduled for November 15 and 16, in comparison with 73 percent who would vote in the lower house elections if they were to be held now.
Senate elections will use a first-past-the-post for candidates contesting individuals constituencies unlike the lower chamber vote, which alloted seats based proportionally on the vote the parties received nationwide.
A recent poll conducted by the IVVM showed the opposition Social Democrats (CSSD) have closed the gap to within two percent of Czech Prime Minister Vaclav Klaus's Civic Democratic Party (ODS).
The poll showed ODS with a 28 percent support level, down slightly from 30 percent in July. Meanwhile the centre-left CSSD improved its standing among the electorate, rising to 26 percent from a July IVVM poll where it stood at 23 percent.
Shenzhen Jinxing Co Ltd said on Tuesday it incurred a 8.33 million yuan loss in the first half of 1996 against net earnings of 38,582 yuan in 1995.
The Shenzhen-listed company said it had main operating income of 1.86 million yuan in the January-June period of 1996, compared with 13.70 million yuan in 1995.
Jinxing, involved in foreign trade, cargo handling and real estate, blamed the loss on Beijing's tight credit policies and its lowering of export tax rebates.
Jinxing said its current liabilities stood at 92.84 million yuan by end June 1996 versus 1995's 85.71 million.
Current assets stood at 88.53 million yuan, compared with 75.47 million a year earlier.
Jinxing said losses were due to poor management of some subsidiaries but added that it was taking steps to sell unprofitable subsidiaries and trim liabilities.
The company said it would focus on streamlining management in the second half of this year, but gave no details.
Jinxing had net earnings of 168,800 yuan in 1995, down 97.98 percent from 7.60 million yuan in 1994 due to funding shortage.
National statistics office ISTAT gave the following Italian wholesale price data for June.
(IEFP).
quarterly updates.
(b) Percentage of unemployed provided by INE.
The Italian antitrust watchdog on Tuesday gave the green light to state company Finmeccanica to press ahead with plans to sell its Alenia unit's 50 percent stake in Mac-Alenia Marconi Communications.
Mac-Alenia Marconi specialises in civilian and military radiocommunications and telematics.
The anti-trust said in its weekly statement that the deal would not substantially alter the sector concerned.
Here is how major stock markets outside the United States ended on Monday.
LONDON - Shares retreated from record levels, ending a quiet session modestly lower as investors took a chance to catch their breath after the market's recent surge. Shares edged to a new record high of 3,877.9 early on, before slipping back to end the day 9.2 points lower at 3,863.7.
FRANKFURT - Blue chip shares, dominated by hopes for an imminent rate cut, held firm in bourse trading before declining slightly with weaker Bunds in late electronic dealing. The IBIS DAX index, which tracks all-day electronic dealings, ended down at 2,556.25. Earlier the DAX ended the floor session up 14.40 points at 2,562.76 points.
PARIS - Shares finished firm but with reduced gains after bond markets gave up some of their earlier advances. One broker said the market was more active than last week but still fairly quiet. Operators are cautious ahead of the U.S. FOMC meeting on Tuesday and German M3 figures due this week. The CAC-40 index closed up 6.69 points or 0.34 percent at 1,986.21.
ZURICH - Shares ended slightly weaker after yielding early gains on a lack of follow-through buying. The market was mainly centered on pharmaceuticals Sandoz and Ciba which plan to merge into Novartis. Switches into Ciba and Sandoz from Roche certificates and numerous recommendations were seen behind the rise. The all-share SPI ended 2.73 points lower at 2,349.08 points.
TOKYO - The Nikkei average closed above 21,000 for the first time in two weeks, but overall, trade was light and lacking in energy with short-covering and small-lot buying boosting indices while investors stayed quiet. The 225-share Nikkei average ended up 272.41 points, or 1.31 percent, at 21,106.41.
HONG KONG - Gains in the property sector lifted stocks to a higher close, with hopes of solid earnings from developers generating buying interest in an otherwise quiet session, analysts said. The Hang Seng index rose 37.50 points to close at 11,213.48.
SYDNEY - The share market closed at its highs, extending early gains as players punted on a boost to financial markets from Tuesday's Federal budget. The All Ordinaries index jumped 28.2 points to close at 2,261.50.
JOHANNESBURG - Industrial shares pared intraday gains to end steady as the rand took a knock in the afternoon while golds ended soft in sluggish trade, characterised by a dearth of institutional interest. The overall index lost 5.9 points to 6.521.5 points, the industrial index was 2.3 points higher at 7,738.8 points and the gold index slipped 3.6 points to 1,730.8 points.
The Chicago Board of Trade reported the following stocks of oats in Chicago, deliverable against CBOT futures. (in 000's bu).
Feyenoord Rotterdam and Roda JC Kerkrade drew 1-1 in a lacklustre opening to the Dutch soccer league season in Kerkrade on Tuesday.
The game came to life in the closing stages when Feyenoord's new midfield signing Kees van Wonderen scored in the 82nd minute only for Marco Roelofsen to equalise from a penalty with just two minutes left.
Players from both sides were involved in a scuffle after the match, but the referee and linesmen were already in the dressing room.
Champions Ajax Amsterdam start their campaign on Wednesday against NAC Breda.
Morgan Keegan said it won $6.380 million of DeSoto, Texas general obligation limited tax, Series 1996, with a true interest cost of 5.344 percent.
Pioneer Financial Services Inc, a national health and life insurer, said Tuesday it completed redemption of all of its outstanding eight percent convertible subordinated debentures due 2000.
More than $9 million of the $9.125 million outstanding debentures were converted to Pioneer Financial Services common stock.
Conversions of the debentures to Pioneer Financial Services common stock will not be dilutive to the company's fully diluted earnings per share since they have already been included in the company's calculation, it said in a statement.
Indian software firm Infosys Technologies topped the investment portfolio of Birla Advantage mutual fund in value terms as on June 30, 1996, the fund said in its quarterly report released on Tuesday.
The fund had 77,700 Infosys shares valued at 55.55 million rupees. Birla Advantage is the maiden fund launched by Birla Capital AMC Ltd, a joint venture of India's Aditya Birla Group and Capital Group of the U.S. in February 1995.
Unilever subsidiary Hindustan Lever stood second, with 49,100 shares valued at 40.33 million rupees. Asian Paints and Madras Cements came next.
Seventy-nine percent of Birla Advantage Fund portfolio consists of shares that reached their 52 week highs during the last three months," the report said.
The report quoted Credence, a research unit tracking performance of mutual funds, as saying that Birla Advantage Fund was the best performing fund for the year ending June 30, 1996 out of a total of 58 domestic funds tracked by it.
"The range of performance for the 58 funds is incredibly wide - from plus 21.11 percent to minus 46.86 percent. Further, only three funds could outperform the market over this period," the Birla Mutual report said.
It said the Indian stock market continued to look attractive and appeared poised for an upturn.
It said liquidity had improved significantly over the last few months both in terms of availability and cost of funds.
"The increased availability of money also means a decline in interest rates," it said.
the rest of the month was 4.25 billion markka.
The New York Stock Exchange said Tuesday that a seat on the exchange sold for $1.16 million, down $287,500 from the previous sale on May 7.
The current level of bids was $1 million and offers were at $1.25 million, it said.
The Latvian Privatisation Agency (LPA) on Tuesday said that it wanted expressions of interest in the sale of its Latvenergo energy company by October 15.
"The agency wants to attract funds from energy related companies, who will be interested in playing a strategic role in the future of the enterprise," the LPA said in a statement.
The sale of Latvenergo is expected to be one of the biggest privatisations in Latvia since it regained independence from the former Soviet Union in 1991.
The LPA said privatisation of the company would be carried out via a capital increase and sale of new shares to investors.
It said that it would offer at least 25 percent but not more than 35 percent of the company at first.
"The agency has already received expressions of interest from major energy companies," the LPA added.
Sweden's  Vatenfall and German  Preussen have already presented their ideas to the LPA on how the privatisation should be carried out.
"The main goal of privatisation is to find a strategic partner and raise new capital for the company," the LPA added.
The agency recently sold a stake in the state-owned Latvian Gas company to a consortium of Preussen and  Ruhrgas and Russia's  Gazprom.
- Over August 12-19 leu's reference rate depreciated 0.28 percent against dollar and 0.42 percent against mark. Depreciation was higher on interbank market.
- IMF June report on Romania, made available to newspaper, says unflexible exchange rate threatens macroecomic stability achieved in 1994.
- Monthly inflation jumped to 7.5 percent in July and price stability till autumn seems utopia.
- Foreign investment is low in Romania and existing red tape cannot encourage foreign investors to come to this country and stay.
- Oil refinery  RAFO SA in Onesti has not been supplied crude for two weeks and management was compelled to halt processing equipment.
- Chemical pollution affects some 400,000 hectares in Romania and amount of waste is now 300 million tonnes, growing by annual 75 million tonnes.
- Milk price is expected to go up after recent energy and fuel price hikes.
- First reactor of Romania's first nuclear power plant at Cernavoda, which will start operating at end-1996, will supply 8.0 percent of Romania's energy output.
- Former premier Theodor Stolojan, present World Bank executive to arrive in Bucharest on August 23 to attend official campaign launch of President Ion Iliescu for a new presidential mandate ahead of the Nvember 3 polls.
- Beggar in western town of Arad, at border with Hungary says he earns minimum 200 marks a day when the Germans come to Romania for holidays, otherwise some 100,000 lei a day ($32).
- None of the 50,000 people detained in Romania's jails is HIV infected, said the jails department.
- Gheorghe Funar, head of National Unity Party (PUNR) invites President Iliescu to a televised debate on the Romanian-Hungarian treaty which is likely to be signed in September.
- National Liberal Alliance (ANL) is only centre right group, opposition Democratic Convention (CDR) and ruling Party of Social Democracy (PDSR) are centre left, says Nicolae Manolescu, ANL candidate for the November 3 presidential polls.
- Number of street children is on rise in Bucharest, said sources in the organisation "Save the Children". Some 800 are estimated to be now in the capital, while across Romania there number is estimated at 5,000.
- National Broadcasting Council (CNA) to set broadcast time for parties and candidates in the November 3 parliamentary and presidential elections on Thursday.
Two railroad workers were presumed dead after two freight trains carrying hazardous chemicals collided head-on Tuesday in Smithfield, West Virginia, emergency officials said.
Carla Morris of the Wetzel County Office of Emergency Services said the workers were presumed killed but could not identify them.
Hazardous materials crews were at the scene cleaning a spill of polyvinyl chloride pellets, said Karen Simsen, a state police spokeswoman.
The trains were part of a fleet owned by CSX Transportation Inc of Jacksonville, Florida, a subsidiary of CSX Corp of Richmond, Virginia.
Harrowston Inc said on Tuesday its 65 percent unit Marsulex Inc signed definitive deals to buy the assets of Coulton Chemical Co of Ohio and the shares of Sulconam Inc of Montreal.
The total cost of the two deals will be roughly C$128 million cash, the company said.
The acquisitions are expected to close next month following final due diligence and appropriate consents. The Sulconam acquisition is also contingent on the waived rights of first refusal by existing shareholders.
North York, Ontario-based Marsulex is an environmental services firm which provides removal services for useable sulphur by-products for the mining, oil refining and chemical industries. These by-products are converted into useable industrial chemicals including sulphuric acid, liquid sulphur dioxide and elemental sulphur and then sold.
Coulton operates plants in Toledo and Cairo, Ohio, and provides sulphuric acid regeneration services to oil refineries and chemical companies in the Midwestern U.S. market. Sulconam removes impurities from the process streams of two oil refineries in Montreal, Quebec.
Bulgaria's Finance Ministry will offer 500 million levs of two-year floating coupon T-notes at an auction on Friday, the Bulgarian National Bank (BNB) said.
The issue will be offered with no minimum acceptable price set in advance by the ministry, the BNB said in a statement.
The coupon equals the BNB's central interest rate (CIR) for the period to maturity. The CIR is now set at an annual 108 percent.
Settlement for the auction would be made on Thursday at the average accepted price.
The Austrian unit of Swedish furniture retailer IKEA said on Tuesday it planned to open two new outlets in Austria within the next two to three years.
Company spokeswoman Silvia Losert told Reuters IKEA Austria was looking to build new stores in northern Vienna and the western city of Innsbruck to complement the country's existing three IKEA stores.
"Plans for the buildings themselves do not yet exist but we have concrete plans to build them," spokeswoman Silvia Losert told Reuters.
No details of the planned investment in the new stores were immediately available.
Losert said the Innsbruck site had already been purchased, but the company was still looking for an appropriate site in northern Vienna. She said the Innsbruck sales floor would cover an area of 9,000 to 10,000 square metres. No details of the future Vienna outlet were available.
Taiwan's central bank said on Tuesday it would inject funds into the banking system later in the day through open market operations.
A central bank official said the bank, through three bills finance companies, would execute within-30-day open market operations on qualified securities instruments offered by interested financial institutions.
Bids would close at 1100 a.m (0300 GMT), he said.
The funds would be released according to actual demand, he said.
Australian Treasurer Peter Costello's Tuesday budget implements measures that boost the bottom line by A$3.9 billion in 1996/97, rising to A$7.2 billion in the following fiscal year.
The budget contains no major fiscal surprises. Every big measure has been announced prior to the budget or widely leaked.
That deficit will fall to just A$1.5 billion in the following year and turn into the promised underlying surplus in 1998/99, even without the full A$8 billion in cuts that the government has foreshadowed since March, the budget papers show.
Asset sales will keep the headline balance in surplus throughout the four-year period covered by the forward estimates. This year's headline surplus is A$474 million.
But there is also extra spending, mostly to fulfill promises made in the campaign for the March 2 election. In net terms, spending falls by only A$2.9 billion in 1996/97, still contributing the bulk of the savings.
The spending cuts really kick in during 1997/98, when A$5.2 billion is saved despite the extra spending.
But the measure has little long term effect. It will save A$575 million this year and A$1.0 billion next year, but the Working Nation funding did not go beyond then and the savings evaporate.
The revenue side -- which is vulnerable to parliamentary obstruction -- is more modest: a net gain of A$1.0 billion in 1996/97 rising to A$2.0 billion in the following year.
Again, more substantial revenue gains are offset by sacrifices to meet election commitments.
The big A$800-million-a-year crackdown on wealthy tax avoiders -- announced by the former government in February -- has collapsed to an estimated revenue gain of just A$100 million in 1997/98.
The tax office does not know how much can be gained after that and so the forward estimates do not allow for it.
This item is still budgeted as costing A$1.1 billion in 1998/99, the year that the budget moves into surplus. The following year the superannuation contribution costs A$2.4 billion, with the budget in a bigger surplus.
Revenue from asset sales, a major difference between the headline and underlying deficits, is estimated at A$5.1 billion in 1996/97, mostly proceeds from the Commonwealth Bank of Australia and some of the government's airport portfolio.
Dozens of Mauritanians expelled from Angola returned home on Tuesday, with some saying they had been badly treated and prevented from saying their Moslem prayers.
The 82 Mauritanians, mostly businessmen, said after a plane from Angola's national airline flew them home that they had not been illegal immigrants and had left valuable possessions behind.
Angola said on Friday it had deported 415 immigrants operating unlawful businesses and would expel hundreds more by early this week.
Returning Mauritanians said Angola had severe economic problems and that Angolans were jealous of foreigners' success. Some said they had been given inadequate food and water while in detention before their expulsion.
Guinean officials said on Monday that 159 Guineans expelled at the weekend had been unfairly treated by Angolan security forces.
A sudden clampdown on foreigners began on August 12 when the Angolan government expelled 349 citizens of Senegal, Lebanon and Mali.
rental revenue bonds, with a net interest cost of 5.6591 percent.
An acute shortage of funds and low beet output have pushed Romania's sugar industry almost to the brink of collapse and the country will import some 300,000 tonnes in 1996 to meet domestic demand, an official said.
"I see the sugar sector heading to bankruptcy," Vasile Stancu, vice-president of Patronatul Zaharului, the sugar sector employers' association, told Reuters on Tuesday.
He said crop on 23,000 hectares from the 161,950 sown to sugar beet had been lost due to a harsh winter and late snows.
The remaining 138,680 hectares were expected to yield some 2,774,000 tonnes of beet, he said, adding that latest tests showed beet sugar content amounted to 11,8 percent "which is not bad at all at this stage".
"Taking into account losses due to handling and impurities, we count on a white sugar output of some 230,000 tonnes, this against an annual consumption of 450,000 tonnes," Stancu said.
Sugar beet harvesting usually starts in Romania by October.
"Under the present circumstances I think Romania will have to import up to 300,000 tonnes of raw sugar to meet demand."
Romania's 1995 sugar production was 300,000 tonnes. Data show the Balkan country imported 246,489 tonnes of sugar last year and 90,230 tonnes over January-May 1996.
A continuing drop in beet output over the past years, caused by bad management of cropland and lack of funds, have created a crisis situation in the sector, Stancu said.
He cited the sugar factory in the southern town of Giurgiu which saw the 12,000 sugar beet hectares alloted to it by the state in 1995 cut to 500 hectares this year.
Stancu said he did not rule out further losses from the 1996 beet crop due to lack of proper machinery, inadequate storage as well as delays in transport and poor fertilisation.
Fund squeezes had forced farmers to use only 100 kilograms of fertilisers per hectare, compared with a recommended 160 kg, he added.
Many farmers had given up growing sugar beet after sugar factories had failed to pay them in time for the 1995 crop, Stancu said, ading that ageing farm labour was also responsible for the scant crop expected this year.
Only 24 of 33 sugar factories are operational with a total capacity of 62,000 tonnes of beet a day.
Sugar factories have debts worth 73 billion lei, the bulk of which is the heavy cost of credits taken in 1992 to finance a government programme to upgrade the plants and increase productivity in the sector, Stancu said.
"The programme boosted output in some areas but on the other hand it ruined the sector financially," he said.
A rapid succession of gas discoveries in Egyptian waters off the Nile Delta are making the area one of the most promising in the world for the oil industry, a senior oil company executive said on Tuesday.
"Only now are we understanding the magnitude of the opportunity," Amoco Egypt vice president Gary Bose told Reuters in an interview. "As a whole, the basin could be world class."
Amoco, one of the leading companies in the field, has made nine discoveries in the past two years. The company and its partners have identified five trillion cubic feet in the area and that could be just the tip of the iceberg.
The oil ministry said on Tuesday that another company, Petrobel/Belayim Petroleum, had found more gas in its Port Fouad concession, north of the region's first producing gas field.
Petrobel is a joint venture between the state's Egyptian General Petroleum Corporation (EGPC) and International Egyptian Oil Company, local subsidiary of the Italian company Agip.
Amoco and its partners have invested more than $250 million in exploration scheme in Egypt since 1992, the year it won its first Nile Delta concession, and the company plans to keep pouring money in as long as its lucky streak lasts.
"Conceivably billions of dollars could be committed if our success continues," said Bose. "Drilling has confirmed significant reserves and the potential for further finds."
"We are already committed to half a billion (dollars) to developing these fields, starting this year and up to about 2002/2003," he added.
Amoco is the largest concession holder in Egypt, with a stake in 8.4 million acres (340,000 square km). It is a partner in nine concessions in the Nile Delta area.
Amoco Egypt's exploration budget alone is $50 million this year and the same amount in 1997.
The company expects to start gas production by the end of the year from its Baltim South field, initially at a modest rate of 20 million cubic feet a day.
It will simultaneously work out development plans with its partners and the Egyptian government for the Baltim East, Temsah and then the Ras al-Barr fields, Bose said.
Amoco is still trying to define the size of the Temsah field. "It may be part of a much larger contiguous field and there's the possibility of large fields in deeper water in our and in other concessions," said Bose.
Initially the gas will go to the Egyptian market, where demand is rising fast as power stations convert to gas and the gas grid reaches new domestic and industrial consumers.
"The Egyptian market is significant but EGPC and other ministries are cooperating very effectively with the contractors to look at export markets," Bose said.
Much depends on progress in the Egyptian government's gas negotiations with Israel, the natural destination for gas exports. The plan is to build a gas pipeline across northern Sinai but Egypt and Israel have not yet agreed on the price.
"Given the potential we are also looking at liquefaction for export by tanker to Europe," said Bose.
Sweden's National Economic Research Institute (KI) said on Tuesday the country's industrial economy had bottomed out of its decline and a recovery was on the horizon.
Cash yen bond trading will be extended by 15 minutes on Wednesday morning, August 28, to give traders more time to react to the Bank of Japan's August "tankan" survey of corporate sentiment which will be released at the same time, Japan Bond Trading Co Ltd said on Tuesday.
Trade, which is usually suspended at 11.05 a.m. (0205 GMT), will be extended to 11.20 a.m. (0220 GMT).
The BOJ said it would release its quarterly survey at 11.00 a.m. (0200 GMT). The BOJ had moved up the time so the news could be digested when Tokyo markets were still open.
An official at Japan Bond Trading said trade will from now on be extended until 11.20 a.m. every time the BOJ releases its quarterly tankan survey.
The tankan is an important indicator used by the BOJ in deciding monetary policy.
EVANS ENVIRONMENTAL CORP.
U.S. West Coast crude prices turned mixed in late morning trade, with lights falling ahead of the September crude expiry and heavies rising on higher posted prices.
Most major oil companies increased their California posted crude prices prices by 50 cents late Monday, in line with the recent rally in futures.
The increase in postings lifted Kern River to $13.90/14.40 a barrel, versus $13.50/14.00 the previous day. Differentials were seen unchanged.
But outright prices for lights came under pressure from spot WTI trade, which turned lower in New York midsession trade ahead of the futures contract expiry today.
Alaska North Slope (ANS) fell 20 cents to $20.80/21.10.
But ANS differentials were unchanged, with most refiners claiming they were adequately supplied or waiting to see Canadian prices before buying incremental crude for September.
However, one major refinery bought at $1.95 a barrel under September WTI Monday.
"I thought they would be able to do wider," another refiner said, referring to the 10-cent fall in ANS deltas since August.
Prices for Line 63 also tracked the fall in WTI values, with no spot deals done in recent weeks and supply and demand seen balanced in the thinly traded market.
Pre-nominations for Line 63 shipments will begin late Tuesday, with restrictions announced with two days.
Year		     Amount    Coupon     Yield     Price  Conc.
KCBT hard red winter ended slightly lower in the December and March positions in thin choppy dealings, traders said.
"FIMAT and Dreyfus were buyers of the December wheat. Our market was pretty well supported during the late half of the day. There were no real big sellers, one trader said.
He noted that KCBT wheat was trading on its own "except late in the day when we followed Chicago," which ended on the downside, he said.
He pegged resistance at $4.80 basis December. "We tested that resistance (level) once or twice and broke through it," he said. December's session high was at $4.82.
"We could be lower again on Wednesday on a technical basis. The lack of exports also put a damper on the market," he said.
KCBT wheat was nine cents per bushel lower to two cents higher, with September unchanged at $4.82 a bushel and December off one cent at $4.78.
Oil trading company Vitol SA has formed a joint venture company with Serbia's NIS Jugopetrol to exclusively import oil products into Serbia, industry sources said on Tuesday.
The joint venture company Eurol International will be based in Belgrade and will also export non-oil based products from Serbia.
Previously, Jugopetrol formed a joint venture with Sinochem, the state Chinese oil concern.
That joint venture, called Yus Co UK Ltd, will supply about 70 percent of Serbia's crude oil needs or some one million barrels per month.
Vitol SA, based in Switzerland, is the world's largest independent oil trading and refining company.
In February this year the Yugoslav government projected 1996 crude oil imports to rise by 131 percent from last year, Belgrade daily newspaper Nasa Borba reported.
The paper said another 500,000 tonnes of oil products needed to be imported to meet domestic demand.
Satellite broadcaster British Sky Broadcasting Plc said on Tuesday it was likely to take a stake in German pay TV network Premiere.
"I think we will end up acquiring a stake in Premiere, providing the price is satisfactory," BSkyB chief executive Sam Chisholm told reporters.
At least four miners were killed in violence at the Leeudoorn division of Kloof Gold Mining Co Ltd on Monday, police said on Tuesday.
Police said in a statement that clashes broke out between rival groups at the mine after a National Union of Mineworkers (NUM) wage talks report-back meeting.
"The bodies of four unknown men were found on the scene, all with numerous cut and stab wounds," police said in a statement.
The situation at the mine was "currently tense but under control", the statement added.
The NUM said on Tuesday it condemned the latest outbreak of violence at Leeudoorn.
"We are saying to workers that should it be found that any NUM member is behind the violence, they will be regarded as having dismissed themselves from the union.
"We will not tolerate violence from our members towards other workers," NUM president James Motlatsi said in a statement.
Last week seven miners were killed in violence sparked by ethnic differences over housing at Driefontein Consolidated Ltd's  east gold mine.
NOTE: NeoPharm is a developmental stage company.
Consolidated Edison Co of New York Inc (Con-Ed) has shut its 975 megawatt (MW) Indian Point 2 nuclear power station at Indian Point, N.Y., the Nuclear Regulatory Commission (NRC) said Tuesday.
No further details on why the unit went off line or when it likely would return to service were not immediately available.
Pesaka Jardine Fleming head of research Dominic Armstrong said the firm on Tuesday upgraded its rating on Malayan Banking Bhd (Maybank) to buy from sell based on its stock valuation and growth prospects.
"We're very bullish," Armstrong said. "We've been sellers of Maybank for 18 months. It was a sell and now it's a buy."
Earlier today, Maybank reported a 24 percent rise in net profit to 1.07 billion ringgit for the year ended June 30, 1996 from 863.53 million ringgit.
Ronald Sandler, chief executive of Lloyd's of London, on Tuesday underwent a second day of court interrogation about the 300-year-old insurance market's multibillion-dollar recovery plan, which he defended as critical to Lloyd's solvency.
Sandler was questioned for four hours in a federal courtroom by lawyers for American investors in Lloyd's and by U.S. District Judge Robert Payne about Lloyd's complex restructuring plan to settle large losses.
Tens of thousands of investors in Lloyd's worldwide -- quaintly known as Names -- were anxiously awaiting the outcome of the case, in which 100 U.S. investors have applied for an injunction to block the recovery plan.
Under the rescue proposal, Lloyd's was to reinsure billions of dollars in liabilities, including pollution and asbestosis-related claims in the United States, in a new company called Equitas.
The proposal also includes a 3.2 billion pound ($4.95 billion) cash offer to the Names designed to offset the cost of Equitas. The investors must vote on the plan by Aug. 28.
The suit, which names 93 plaintiffs, seeks to block the plan until more detailed financial information is released. It contends that Lloyd's has breached U.S. disclosure laws.
Sandler, as he did on Monday, said the plan was crucial to Lloyd's solvency.
Payne questioned Sandler for about an hour, asking about Lloyd's plans to pay its liabilities and what would happen if its investments made more money than was needed to pay off those liabilities.
"Most (Lloyd's officials) believe that some time over 30 years the liability will be extinguished," Sandler said, adding that any money left over would go to charities.
When asked by the judge who the benefactors would be, Sandler said he was not able to answer.
Payne told Sandler firmly that the company needed to have a plan for the disposition of leftover assets and that he would need to be told who the benefactors would be.
Payne also asked whether Lloyd's was able to pay the total premium if U.S. investors did not back the recovery plan. Sandler again said he was unable to answer.
The proceedings resumed in the afternoon after a break for lunch.
Payne earlier criticised the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission for refusing to determine whether Lloyd's should be subject to U.S. securities laws.
The legal challenge was complicated on Friday by the SEC's neutral position on this issue. Payne said the SEC would have a second opportunity to respond to his request for a ruling.
Separately Tuesday morning, Lloyd's received a boost from another court case in New York, which dismissed action brought against the market by four Names.
They had claimed that Lloyd's knew long ago the extent of liabilities faced by Names.
"We are pleased by this decision. Names entered into their commitments under U.K. law and we are pleased that U.S. courts continue to recognise this," said Lloyd's U.S. executive, Peter Lane.
Source: Manitoba Pork.
The Bundesbank said it was setting a tender for 14-day securities repurchase agreements, offering banks liquidity at fixed rate of 3.30 percent.
Funds will be credited to accounts tomorrow, Wednesday, and the securities have to be repurchased on September 4.
A 69.9 billion-mark repo pact set also at a fixed 3.30 percent rate expires on Wednesday.
The Bundesbank has kept the rate fixed at 3.30 percent since February.
Taubmans distributes coatings throughout Australia and operates a large paint factory at Villawood, Sydney. It will be integrated into Barlows' South African-based Plascon group.
Chairman Warren Clewlow said the acquisition fitted with the company's policy of geographical diversification, and would further hedge it against rand fluctuations.
"Barlows derives a quarter of its attributable earnings from its international interests. This development will increase this contribution in the future to give Barlows a stronger rand hedge profile," he said.
Pharmaceuticals Ciba-Geigy AG and Sandoz AG, which plan to merge as Novartis later this year, moved foreward the date for publishing their first half results to August 28.
The date was originally set as August 29. A spokesmen said both firms' numbers were due to be released simultaneously.
Ciba last year posted a first half net profit of 1.50 billion Swiss francs, up six percent from the 1994 period. Sandoz first half net profit in 1995 was 1.11 billion Swiss francs, or 10 percent than a year earlier.
Belgium's shocking child sex scandal in which two young girls have been killed, two rescued and at least two are missing is symptomatic of a global sickness, child rights lawyer Michele Hirsch said on Tuesday.
"Whether you talk about paedophilia, prostitution, pornography or the traffic in human organs, people are increasingly being treated as a primary resource," she told Reuters in an interview. "It is a global problem."
Hirsch was involved in changing Belgium's child protection laws last year after the unmasking of Briton John Stamford -- a Belgian resident and head of the Spartacus international paedophile ring -- who died during his trial last December.
She said there was plenty of evidence that paedophile sex tourism -- primarily to countries like Thailand, the Philippines and India -- really got into its stride in the 1970s.
Research has indicated up to 800,000 child prostitutes in Thailand, some 400,000 in India and some 60,000 in the Philippines.
However, a combination of tougher rules in Thailand and the Philippines and fear of Acquired Immune Deficiency Syndrome has changed the nature of the trade.
Paedophiles are now in the market for virgins, and the younger the better, Hirsch said. At the same time the trade in pornography -- video tapes, books and magazines -- has boomed.
Vietnam, Cambodia, and Latin America are emerging as major supplies of child prostitutes, but eastern Europe -- paricularly Russia and Romania are quickly catching up, Hirsch said.
East Europe is one of the newest markets, both for the supply of child prostitutes to their western neighbours and as consumers of pornography.
"Organised crime, the Russian Mafia is heavily involved. It is big business," Hirsch said.
One of the factors in the Belgian case is just how wealthy the key witness, 39-year-old unemployed father of three Marc Dutroux, appears to have been.
Dutroux, a convicted child abuser who was charged on Friday with abduction and illegal imprisonment of children, owns at least six houses in Belgium and has admitted paying two of his associates 40,000 francs ($1,300) to kidnap a child.
In the end they turned up with two, eight-year-olds Julie Lejeune and Melissa Russo. The girls, abducted in June last year, starved to death in late February or early March. Dutroux led police to their bodies on Saturday.
Dutroux has also admitted kidnapping An Marchal and Eefje Lambrecks in Ostend last August.
The fate of the two girls is a mystery. Belgian media has speculated that they may have been sold into prostitution in the Czech Republic, although Interpol in Prague said there was no trace of the two on Czech soil.
Belgian investigators have found makeshift cells in some of Dutroux' houses where some of the kidnapped girls were certainly imprisoned, and confiscated large quantities of videos and magazines in their raids.
As far as Hirsch is concerned, this is all part of a pattern that will find echoes around the globe -- with increasing coordination and communication between different paedophile groups, some of which are now on the internet.
She points to radically different laws on child protection even in neighbouring countries, regardless of the morality, but says simply locking up the perpetrators will not solve the problem.
"Unless we cure the demand there is no solution. We must treat the victims because time and again we find the abusers were themselves the abused," she says.
Taiwan's China-concept shares rebounded in late Tuesday trade on news that China had issued a set of rules governing direct shipping links with estranged Taiwan, brokers said.
China's official Xinhua news agency said on Tuesday the regulations were effective immediately, although Taipei still bans direct shipping links across the Taiwan strait.
China-concept shares are those in Taiwan firms with major investments or investment plans in China.
With 30 minutes left, Yang Ming Marine was up 50 cents or 1.44 percent to T$35.40. Formosa Plastics gained 50 cents or 0.95 percent to T$53.5 and President Enterprises was up 40 cents or 1.04 percent to T$39.
"The news on direct shipping immediately triggered a rebound on China-concept shares, as it should help ease recent tense Taiwan-China relations," said Alex Yang of National Securities.
Speculation that Taipei might change its China policies has mounted since President Lee Teng-hui cautioned on August 14 that Taiwan needed to avoid over-dependence on China for investment.
Talisman Energy (UK) Ltd, a unit of Canada's Talisman Energy Inc, said early on Tuesday it had agreed to acquire interests in three producing oil fields and adjacent acreage from British Petroleum Co Plc (BP).
In a statement, the company said BP announced its intention to sell the Beatrice, Buchan and Clyde fields in March 1996 as part of a plan to dispose of some non-core assets. BP is the operator of these properties and its interests range from 43 percent to 65 percent.
Talisman will acquire about 27 million net barrels of proved and probable reserves. The transaction is expected to close at the end of this year, with an effective date of July 1, 1996.
The acquisition will add about 16,000 barrels a day of oil and liquids production, starting in 1997, "and $30 million to 40 million annually in cash flow at WTI prices of US$18.00 per barrel," the statement said.
Most of the contractors and employees working in the fields are expected to join Talisman.
Talisman produces 96,000 barrels a day of oil and liquids, of which 33,000 is in the North Sea. The company produces 654 mmcf/day of natural gas, of which 91 mmcf/day is in the North Sea.
NOTE - Ceramics retailer Italtile said several new franchised and group-owned stores were scheduled to open within the next 12 months.
All divisions had budgeted for improved results and continued real growth in earnings per share was expected.
House of Representatives Speaker Newt Gingrich said on Tuesday the United States should be ready to carry out military strikes against nations suspected of plotting attacks against American targets.
Calling for what he termed a "doctrine of pre-emption," Gingrich said in a speech to business leaders that potential "terrorists" should be given 24 hours to prove they were innocent or face retaliation.
He said attacks on terrorist cells could be carried out covertly by the Central Intelligence Agency or overtly by military means in the style of Israel's 1981 attack on an Iraqi nuclear power plant.
On June 7, 1981, Israel bombed a French-built nuclear plant in Iraq with American jets. The government said it conducted the attack to prevent Iraq from making atomic bombs for use against Israel. A French technician died in the raid.
Gingrich also said the U.S. government should take steps to protect cities with a missile defence system and beef up intelligence activities aimed at exposing terrorist groups.
"We don't wait around until after they take out the World Trade towers, with nuclear weapons next time. We go ahead and say: We have a reason to believe you're not behaving correctly. You should convince us in the next 24 hours that we're wrong or we will take you out," he said.
"If we would be very aggressive in saying to Libya, Syria, Iran and Sudan that we will not tolerate your supporting terrorists, we could have a big effect on the resources available to terrorists around the world."
The former history teacher added that the U.S. government should be ready to apply "whatever levels of pressure we have to" to stop nations from funding terrorist activities.
President Bill Clinton has stressed his determination to stamp out terrorism following a string of attacks against Americans in recent months. On Aug. 5, he signed a bill to punish firms that invest in energy projects in Iran or Libya and predicted European nations would eventually support the move despite initial opposition.
A Republican-drafted anti-terrorism bill sailed through the House this month but stalled in the Senate. The bill lacked most of the provisions sought by Clinton following the crash of TWA Flight 800 off New York last month and the pipe-bomb blast at the Atlanta Olympics.
Romania's ruling leftist party on Tuesday attacked a leading presidential hopeful's support for the return of the country's exiled king, giving a taste of the bitter campaigning ahead for national elections in November.
Adrian Nastase, executive president of the Party of Social Democracy (PDSR), said remarks made by Emil Constantinescu in the United States showed that if elected he would be  prepared to breach the constitution by handing power to King Michael.
"Constantinescu declares that during his mandate he wants to hand over power to the "real' leader of Romania, former King Michael," Nastase told a news conference.
"Constantinescu recognises his incompetence for the function he wishes to occupy, realising he will never produce a programme for Romania and looking from the very beginning for a replacement," Nastase added.
Romanians go to the polls on November 3 to elect a 341-seat Chamber of Deputies (lower house) and 143-seat Senate (upper house) and a president for a new four-year term.
The monarchy was abolished in Romania in 1947 and young King Michael was exiled to Switzerland. He made one triumphant return in the post-communist era, in 1992, but worried authorities have barred him from coming back ever since.
Constantinescu is presidential candidate of the Democratic Convention (CDR), an alliance of centrist parties and civic groups, and leading rival to incumbent Ion Iliescu.
Iliescu's PDSR, its reputation tarnished by corruption allegations and charges of economic mismanagement, has been looking for an opportunity to tackle the CDR and retake the initiative before formal campaigning begins on September 4.
It seized on the comments to a small U.S. magazine, reprinted in a Romanian daily newspaper, and pushed the CDR and Constantinescu, an academic who lost the 1992 presidential battle, on to the defensive.
"My position has been consistent since 1992," said Constantinescu, who complained the PDSR had misrepresented his acknowledged support for Michael's return and for a referendum on the future role of the monarch.
"To start again with diversions like attacking the opposition with issues like the monarchy and capitalism...is to turn away from Romania's essential problems - the economy, poverty and corruption," Constantinescu said in a statement.
CDR officials insisted Constantinescu was battling to win a whole term in office and he himself said less than 10 percent of Romanians would currently support a return of the monarchy.
Opinion polls suggest Iliescu will win the presidential election with Constantinescu and former premier Petre Roman, another centrist politician, battling for second place.
Britain's SmithKline Beecham Plc will pay $1 million a year to the American Cancer Society and put the society's name on SmithKline's Nicoderm smoking-cessation patches, The New York Times reported on Tuesday.
The move is the latest marketing marriage of a drug maker and a non-profit health care association.
With the deal, SmithKline stole a march on rival Johnson & Johnson, which recently introduced its own non-prescription nicotine skin patch, Nicontrol, as well as an over-the-counter version of Nicorette chewing gum to help smokers quit.
Some professional health care associations have long provided seals of approval and product commendations, but the pressure for corporate tie-ins has mounted as traditional sources of money have diminished.
A spokesman for the American Cancer Society said it was discussing other partnerships with its skin care and nutritional products companies.
The cancer society was not endorsing any particular product but permission to use its name would be exclusive in a "product category" like the nicotine skin patches, the spokesman told the newspaper.
The U.S. Federal Reserve meets on Tuesday to discuss the future course of interest rates and is widely expected to keep rates steady amid mixed signals on the economy.
"The speeches made by various Fed governors and by bank presidents recently are not pointing toward tightening," said Preston Martin, chairman of HomeVest Financial Services Inc. in San Francisco.
"I would think the odds are very heavily weighted toward the prospect that there will be no change at the next policy making meeting," said Martin, a former Fed vice chairman.
The Fed's policy-making Federal Open Market Committee is due to start meeting at 9 a.m. EDT (1300 GMT). If past practice is followed, any decision by the FOMC should be announced around 2:15 p.m. EDT (1815 GMT).
Martin's forecast was shared unanimously by the 30 economists polled last week by Reuters, although some of those experts did not rule out an interest-rate rise later this year.
The Fed meeting takes place at a time when questions abound about whether the economy is beginning to cool off after growing at a fast clip in the second quarter.
Until just a few weeks ago, many economists believed that the economy was growing quickly enough to require an interest-rate rise by the Fed to slow it down and prevent inflation. However, a series of recent reports containing early signs of a slowdown changed those views.
"We had data very recently showing the housing market is starting to fade and the inflation reports were good," said Joel Prakken, chairman at the St. Louis forecasting firm Macroeconomic Associates Advisors LLC.
"All of that suggests we are seeing a slowdown from the second quarter and that the Fed does not need to move," he added.
Some experts, however, said the economic signs were inconclusive and did not rule out a rate rise later this year.
Any rate increase would represent a reversal in the Fed's monetary policy. The previous rate change was in January, the last of a series of credit easings undertaken when the economy appeared soft. The economy has rebounded strongly since then.
The federal funds rate, which commercial banks charge each other for overnight cash, is now at 5.25 percent. The funds rate is controlled by the Fed and acts as a benchmark for other short-term interest rates.
The discount rate, which the Fed charges member banks for loans, stands at 5 percent.
Copper prices drifted lower in routine trade on the London Metal Exchange (LME) on Tuesday, weighed down by light Far Eastern selling, a rise in stocks and weakening nearby spreads.
Other base metals were narrowly mixed at the end of another sluggish day.
Three month copper futures finished the afternoon kerb at $1,931 a tonne against Monday's afternoon close of $1,942.
"In the short term we could see a test of $1,900 support, and $1,880 would need to hold below that," said William Adams of Rudolf Wolff.
"I don't think the market is looking particularly strong at the moment," he added.
Copper stocks rose 5,000 tonnes, which was in line with market expectations, but underlined the strong rising trend in inventory levels.
Aluminium finished marginally weaker at $1,489 from $1,490 having hit a low of $1,482. Stocks rose 2,900 tonnes.
Prices were trapped in a downward price channel and needed to break above $1,510 to escape to the upside.
Nickel prices finished on a strong note, gaining $65 to $7,185 despite dipping to $7,070 at one stage.
Routine buying emerged during the afternoon session after an increase in stocks of 114 tonnes pulled values back earlier on.
Zinc failed to react to a sizeable stockdraw, with traders comfortable with overall inventories while demand was subdued.
Stocks fell 4,050 tonnes but prices edged back $2 to $1,031.
"At 8.5 weeks' (consumption) the current stocks ratio is an improvement on the 9.4 weeks' ruling at the end of 1995 but has some way to go still before a sustained rise is reflected in prices," said brokers Brandeis in a report.
Lead gained $3 to $824 while stocks rose 1,075 tonnes.
Thistle Hotels Plc said on Tuesday that London would be the main target in the hotelier's expansion plans after it floats on the London stock market and launches its share offer in September.
The float is expected to value the company at between one billion and 1.5 billion stg. Of the 250 million stg in new cash raised under the offer, Thistle's chief executive Robert Peel told Reuters that around 100-150 million stg would be used to pay down debt, with the remaining 100 million invested in expanding its room capacity.
U.S. spot natgas prices edged a couple of cents higher Tuesday in most regions, as Tropical Storm Dolly still lurked in the Caribbean but displayed only a minor threat to Gulf facilities, industry sources said.
Louisiana Gulf Coast swing prices gained about one to three cents to the $2.07-2.12 per million British thermal units area as above-normal temperatures were expected in the Northeast, Midwest and Texas through Friday.
In south Texas, where summer-like temperatures continue, prices rose by about one cent into the $2.04-2.09 range.
Similarly in the Midcontinent region, prices climbed about two cents higher into the low-$1.90s as forecasters called for temperatures about three to six degrees Fahrenheit above-normal through Thursday.
Permian basin prices also edged up about a cent to the high-$1.80s to $1.90.
Cooler weather on the West Coast pressured Topock (southern California border) prices lower to about $1.90, but the brief respite from summer heat is expected to be short-lived.
In the Appalachian region, traders reported closing deals in the mid-$2.20s to about $2.30. The region is anticipating slightly above-normal temperatures over the next three days.
Bangladeshi tea prices rose on demand from both local and overseas buyers at the weekly auction on Tuesday, brokers said.
Brokers said there was healthy tone in the market as buyers for Russia, Pakistan, Afghanistan and Sudan and Jordan operated strongly pushing the prices of most grades higher.
Treasurer Peter Costello said that if the government's 1996/97 budget was passed by the Senate, the upper house of parliament, such passage would set up an interest rate cut.
"If we can get our budget, intact, through the Senate, if we can get that low inflation locked in, then I think we can set up the chances for an easing in monetary policy," Costello said.
Asked whether there would be another interest rate cut before the end of calendar 1996, he said: "I'd like that to be an outcome and I am going to do the best to make sure we are going to get it".
The Reserve Bank of Australia cut official cash rates to 7.00 percent from 7.50 percent on July 31.
NOTE - I-O Data Device Inc manufactures PC memory boards.
P&I clubs are planning a campaign to reduce their reinsurance costs next year from the approximately $330 million paid this year.
"Shipowners cannot tolerate so much money going out on reinsurance. There must be a change," John Lyras, chairman of the London Club, told a news conference called to unveil the club's 1996 annual report.
Protection and indemnity (P&I) clubs are mutual organisations formed by shipowners to insure their vessels. There are 14 clubs worldwide which together are known as the Group.
P&I clubs have already increased the level of self insurance to 15 percent from 10 percent in an effort to inject competition and bring costs down.
Bryan Gaze, deputy chairman and finance director of the London Club's managing agent A Bilborough & Co Ltd, said his personal view was that the cost of reinsurance for P&I clubs could be cut to around $200 million next year.
"The reinsurance market has softened and softened and I anticipate a very significant reduction in premiums for next year...The Group has paid far too much for reinsurance over the past five years," he said.
P&I sources said reinsurers had not lost money on the P&I account over the last ten years, adding that they were planning a sustained campaign over the coming months to bring down their reinsurance costs.
However, some said they considered the target of $200 million was optimistic.
Most P&I reinsurance is placed in the Lloyd's of London market. The P&I initiative to cut their reinsurance bill will add to pressures on marine insurers, who are already concerned about falling rates.
Coca growers in Colombia's Putumayo province agreed on Tuesday to stop protesting the government's drug crop eradication programme after officials promised increased aid for crop substitution and other benefits.
Tens of thousands of peasants have staged mass protests in three southern provinces since mid-July, blocking roads and clashing with security forces to protest the eradication of what they say is their only viable source of income.
At least six people have been killed in outbreaks of violence stemming from the protests so far and the situation in Putumayo was aggravated by a wave of crippling attacks by leftist guerrillas against government oil installations there.
Eduardo Diaz Uribe, head of a government commission sent to Putumayo to negotiate a peace accord, said Tuesday's agreement included a pledge of stepped-up aid for crop substitution in the area. The government also promised to increase spending on public works projects in the impoverished province and to guarantee the protection of human rights there, Diaz told reporters.
Details of the agreement were not immediately available but the emphasis on human rights was seen as signalling that no action would be taken against leaders of the protest.
Government and military officials say the demonstrations in Putumayo and neighbouring Caqueta and Guaviare provinces have been orchestrated by leftist rebels who make millions of dollars a year protecting drug farms and laboratories in the jungle-covered south.
As proof of the alleged guerrilla role in the protests, officials said one of the lead negotiators for coca leaf growers in Putumayo was a local commander of the country's top rebel group, the Revolutionary Armed Forces of Colombia.
Military officials said rebels also instigated a clash on Monday in Caqueta in which one person was killed and more than 30 injured in a pitched battle between protesters and security forces outside the provincial capital of Florencia.
Protesters in Caqueta demanded the presence on Tuesday of Interior Minister Horacio Serpa to help negotiate peace there but there was no immediate response from the government.
The government, under heavy pressure from the United States to wipe out tens of thousands of acres (hectares) of illegal coca and opium poppy crops this year, has vowed that it will continue spraying illicit drug fields from the air with the herbicide glyphosate.
Underwriters over-allotment  375,000 shrs Business: Developer, manufacturer and marketer of surgical products for use by ear, nose and throat specialists. Use of Proceeds: repayment of outstanding debt, redemption of preferred stock, working capital and general corporate purposes.
Japanese consumer finance firms are likely to remain competitive despite an increase in personal bankruptcies, deteriorating asset quality and cut-throat competition, Moody's Investors Service said.
Despite the host of negative factors, the firms should be able to survive because of their underwriting and collection expertise, the rating agency said on Tuesday.
Sales finance company Orient Corp's rating was also stable, Moody's said.
It added that sales finance firms were more vulnerable to deteriorating asset quality due to weaker financial fundamentals than their counterparts in consumer finance.
"Sales finance firms' impaired assets in the corporate lending segment are also an area of concern," Moody's said.
Chrysler Corp. said Tuesday it plans to build a $315 million plant in Brazil and boost production at a plant being built in Argentina to expand its presence in South America.
The investment in Argentina will be $65 million, the nation's third-largest automaker said. The company has lagged behind rivals General Motors Corp. and Ford Motor Co. in expanding overseas.
The new Brazilian plant, which will be Chrysler's third in South America, will assemble the compact Dakota pickup truck for sale in Argentina, Brazil, Paraguay and Uruguay, the countries in the so-called Mercosur free-trade zone.
A site for the Brazilian plant will be selected by year-end and vehicles will roll of the assembly line starting in mid-1998, Chrysler said.
In Argentina, Chrysler will make the Jeep Cherokee at the plant under construction in Cordoba province starting in 1998, in addition to the Jeep Grand Cherokee starting next April.
"Our decision to manufacture in Brazil and expand production in Argentina is based on the favourable economic conditions and future growth prospects we see in the Mercosur," Chrysler Chairman Robert Eaton said in a statement.
The investments announced Tueday bring to $735 million the total financial commitments Chrysler has made in South America, the company said.
"With these new investments, we will substantially increase our sales in Mercosur," said Eaton. "The ultimate beneficiaries will be car buyers in the region who will have a bigger selection of Chrysler products available to them at better prices."
Chrysler also said the Detroit Diesel Corp., an engine supplier, will establish a new plant in Brazil to make engines for Dakotas built in Brazil and the Jeep Cherokees assembled in Argentina.
Chrysler recently redesigned the Dakota and plans to start selling it in the United States soon.
Chrysler stock rose 50 cents to $29 in afternoon trading on the New York Stock Exchange.
-- Merrill Lynch said it raised its near-term rating on Veterinary Centers of America Inc to buy from accumulate. It kept its long-term rating at buy.
-- Further details were not immediately available.
Vietnam will this week place on trial two prominent intellectuals who were jailed last year in a government crackdown on dissent, a rights group and dissident sources said on Tuesday.
The two men were arrested in November last year as part of a crackdown on dissent in the run-up to Hanoi's Eighth Communist Party Congress.
Phu was charged with leaking state secrets through an interview with a French radio station and through the distribution of documents in which he criticised the Hanoi government.
Le Hong Ha had earlier been expelled from the Communist Party after voicing support for Hoang Minh Chinh, another prominent dissident.
The Paris-based group Alliance Vietnam Liberte said in a statement on Tuesday the arrests had been condemned by numerous overseas bodies as well as international rights groups.
Hansol Merchant Bank has mandated Credit Suisse and KDB Asia to arrange a US$40 million floating rate certificate of deposit issue, bankers said.
They said the facility has a final maturity of three years with annual put options and no call options. The issue will be priced at par.
An arranger group is being formed, bankers noted.
No futher details were available.
In March, the issuer launched a US$50 million FRCD.
The three-year facility was priced at par to float at 50 basis points over the six-month London Interbank Offered Rate.
With fees, the all-in return for top-tier managers was 66 basis points.
State-controlled insurer GAN jumped up to 6.4 percent on the Paris bourse after a newspaper said savings bank group Caisses d'Epargne was preparing a firm bid for GAN's CIC banking subsidiary.
At 1112 GMT, GAN was up 6.7 francs or 5.33 percent at 132.4 francs per share after trading as high as 133.8 francs.
Volume however was a thin 7,007 shares.
Analysts noted Caisses d'Epargne had not publicly contested GAN's book value for CIC of 14.1 billion francs for 100 percent.
That would avoid a book loss on the sale for GAN and would mean the state did not have to recapitalise CIC, they said.
Analysts said there was also market speculation that Caisses d'Epargne had been persuaded by the state to make an offer for CIC to prevent it going to foreign buyers.
Such a move would also mean Caisses d'Epargne using its own funds, which would please commercial banks which want to see the savings bank weakened, they said. Caisses d'Epargne has a monopoly on the popular pass-book Livret A savings account.
Australia's savings ratios for recent quarters have been revised up significantly, the Australian Bureau of Statistics (ABS) said in its June quarter gross domestic product (GDP) release.
After originally being reported at close to zero, the March quarter seasonally adjusted househould savings ratio was revised up to 2.2 percent.
The ABS said the savings ratio had been revised up for recent quarters as a result of incorporating revised annual estimates for various aggregates and initial annual estimates for 1995/96 (July-June). Most income components were revised up, while some expenditure aggregates were downwardly revised.
"Consequently, household saving which is derived as a balancing item, has been revised up significantly for recent quarters," the ABS said.
Adjustment to pay-as-you-earn tax collections also affected the December 1995 and March 1996 quarters, the ABS said.
The Japanese electronics executive who was kidnapped in Mexico described his nine-day ordeal on Tuesday as harrowing and said he was looking forward to some rest and freedom.
Speaking for the first time since he was freed on Monday, Mamoru Konno told a news conference, "I plan now to rest and enjoy the company of my family and colleagues and savor the sweetness of freedom."
The 57-year-old president of a U.S. subsidiary of Japan's Sanyo Electric Co looked tired and fragile, and refused to say when he would return to work.
"It took a tremendous toll on me, physically, emotionally and intellectually," he told a news conference at Sanyo's San Diego facilities on Tuesday.
Konno was found in the basement of an unoccupied building in Tijuana, just south of the Mexican border, early on Monday morning. Government officials said he was freed after kidnappers received $2 million in unmarked $100 bills.
"It was a harrowing ordeal and I sincerely hope that no one has to go through it," said Konno, who was seized Aug. 10 as he travelled home to San Diego from a company party and baseball game in Tijuana.
Jose Luis Anaya Bautista, state attorney general of Baja California, said on Monday that the ransom was paid on Saturday night with no apparent guarantee Konno would be released.
Police are still searching for six suspects.
"Last week was one of the worst weeks of my life, although I am in good health," Konno said.
Konno thanked Mexican, U.S. and Japanese authorities, as well as his family, for helping him survive the ordeal.
"I think that's what kept me going," he said.
Konno, who is a father of three, was joined by his oldest son, Kenji, 26.
"I'm happy to be reunited with my father," Kenji said.
The Australian government announced on Tuesday a 15 percent tax surcharge on the retirement savings of wealthy people to raise about A$500 million annually as part of an overhaul of the superannuation (pension) system.
The budget papers list the effect from all the changes would be an increase in revenue of A$523 million in 1997/98 -- the first full year of the new arrangements -- rising to A$582 million in 1999/2000.
The surcharge, to be phased in for annual incomes between A$70,000 and A$85,000 and to apply in full for people earning above that, will raise A$480 million in 1997/98, rising to A$530 in 1999/2000.
"The measures I am announcing tonight are designed to make superannuation (retirement savings) fairer," Treasurer Peter Costello said in his budget speech.
He also confirmed in his budget speech the government would honour the previous administration's pledge to make public contributions to workers' retirement savings.
Costello also said the government would raise the age limit for retirement contributions to 70 from 65 years and allow people on low incomes to take a wage rise in lieu of employers paying mandatory contributions into their retirement funds.
The government will also allow a tax rebate for contributions made on behalf of a low-income spouse.
The standard contribution limit, which enables employers to claim tax relief on their contributions to a worker's retirement savings, has been dropped, Costello said.
He also confirmed that financial institutions would be able to create retirement savings accounts as a simple, low-cost superannuation product.
The Census and Statistics Department said June orders-on-hand fell 6.0 percent in value terms on the year against a seven percent drop in May.
Zairean state copper and cobalt miner Gecamines said a one-day strike at a treatment plant last week did not spread and the company was working normally.
"A work stoppage was observed last Monday August 12 in the Shituru treatment plant," Gecamines spokesman Tsongo Muhingirwa said.
He said staff at the Shituru plant in the town of Likasi in southeastern Shaba province had downed tools because they did not receive their maize flour ration on time. They went back to work when the supply arrived at the canteen.
"The situation has returned to normal since that day," Tsongo said.
An Israeli soldier was killed and another seriously wounded on Tuesday inside Israel's south Lebanon occupation zone when a group of Israeli soldiers fired on another group by mistake, security sources said.
They said a group of soldiers mistook another group for Moslem guerrillas in Wadi Zibqeen, on the edge of the western sector of the buffer zone and opened fire at five a.m. (0200 GMT).
One soldier was killed and another was wounded. The body and the wounded soldier were immediately flown to Israel by helicopter. The sources did not give further details.
In a statement issued in Jerusalem the Israeli army identified the dead man as Staff Sergeant Valery Ganzman, 22, and confirmed that another soldier was severely wounded.
It said they were hit "by misdirected fire during operations in the western sector of the security zone" but gave no further details.
Later, Israeli gunmen and their local militia allies shelled the village of Zibqeen outside the zone heavily damaging three houses. No casualties were reported in the bombardment, Lebanese security sources said.
Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu had visited the zone on Monday and warned the pro-Iranian Hizbollah that its raids on Israeli forces would only worsen the conflict.
Hours after he spoke a militiaman of the Israeli-backed South Lebanon Army (SLA) was killed by a guerrilla bomb while on patrol, SLA sources said.
Israeli troops, assisted by 3,000 SLA militiamen, hold a 15-km (nine-mile) wide zone in south Lebanon since 1985. Hizbollah (Party of God) guerrillas often attack the occupation troops in a bid to oust them from Lebanon.
Cos Angel 50,000 long tons barley 5-10/9 NoPac/Taiwan $16.65 Dreyfus.
TBN 54,000 long tons heavy grain 5-15/9 NoPac/Taiwan $9.60 10,000/4,000 NSAC.
Kavo Midia 52,000 long tons heavy grain 28/8-5/9 Paranagua & Rio Grande/China $22.00 Nidera.
Iguana 30,000 long tons grains prompt River Plate & Brazil/Continent $16.50 Toepfer.
Mostostal Warszawa SA.
Germany's blue-chip DAX index opened stable on Tuesday, supported by money supply data viewed as boosting the case for an interest rate cut this week.
The 30-share DAX was up 1.53 points at 2,564.29 points at 0849 GMT and was expected to hold steady around that level through the day, with order volumes relatively thin.
"We are not opening up any big positions," a Frankfurt trader said.
The market got an early boost when July M3 money supply data, released early in the morning, showed a slowdown in the monthly growth to 8.6 percent from 9.6 percent -- a figure which could support the case for a cut this week in the securities repurchase rate, or repo.
However the data failed to generate new momentum in the share market and dealers noted that a repo rate cut was generally already priced in.
"What we really need is a dollar above 1.50 (marks) to give us a new impulse," said another dealer.
Blue chip stocks were mixed, with utility stocks the clear winners of the day while chemicals faded from popularity.
Dealers said investors were shifting into utilities from the chemicals sector.
Diversified utility Viag AG, which is expected to release six-month earnings on Tuesday, was up 3.20 marks at 568 marks and RWE AG was up 85 pfennigs at 55.35.
Meanwhile Bayer AG was down 67 pfennigs at 52.05 marks and BASF AG was down 25 pfennigs at 42.70 marks.
Police drafted in more investigators on Wednesday as an international hunt widened for two teenage girls abducted a year ago by convicted child rapist Marc Dutroux in Belgium's deadly child-sex scandal.
Public Prosecutor Michel Bourlet said up to 30 extra investigators would join a team seeking An Marchal and Eefje Lambrecks, seized by captors in Ostend last August.
Dutroux has admitted kidnapping Marchal and Lambrecks. Their subsequent fate is a mystery.
"There are elements that allow us to believe that the two girls are still alive," Bourlet told a news conference late on Tuesday.
The investigations went international on Tuesday as Belgium grappled with shock revelations of deaths, abductions and imprisonment of children by paedophile kidnappers. Police opened communications with a number of countries in their efforts to find the two missing girls.
The media spotlight has been on the Czech Republic, Germany, the Netherlands and France. Dutch police reopened a number of dormant dossiers on missing children on Tuesday.
"We are at the moment establishing contact with police in other countries via the services of Interpol," Major Jean-Marie Boudin, spokesman for the Belgian Gendarmerie's special missing children squad, told Reuters.
At least 15 children have disappeared in Belgium in the past six years. Seven have now been found dead, six are still missing and only two have so far been rescued.
The nation was stunned at the weekend as Dutroux led police to the bodies of eight-year-olds Julie Lejeune and Melissa Russo. He admitted paying two accomplices 40,000 francs ($1,300) when they were abducted in June 1995.
The two were starved to death early this year.
Dutroux was formally charged on Friday with abduction and illegal imprisonment of children after police raided a house he owned in Charleroi and rescued 14-year-old Laetitia Delhez and 12-year-old Sabine Dardenne from a makeshift concrete dungeon.
Both girls had been sexually abused.
Michel Lelievre was charged with the same offence. Michelle Martin, Dutroux' second wife, has been charged as an accomplice, and Jean-Michel Nihoul with criminal association.
Dutroux denied responsibility for the deaths on the grounds that at the time he was serving four months in jail for theft.
But he did admit killing accomplice Bernard Weinstein for letting the girls die.
The two girls will be buried in a private ceremony on Thursday followed by a televised public memorial service in Liege at which police expect up to 100,000 people.
As the two friends lay side by side in white coffins on Tuesday, each bearing a brass plaque inscribed simply "Julie" and "Melissa", weeping people filed past at the rate of 500 an hour from early till late as Belgium poured out its grief.
Against stern warnings from the prosecutor involved and his own mother, Dutroux was released 10 years early in 1992 from a 13-year sentence for multiple rape and child abuse.
Police searching a house in a Charleroi suburb occupied by Lelievre found narrow, trench-like cells dug in the cellar floor with evidence of occupation by children.
Child rights lawyer Michele Hirsch told Reuters the Belgian case was symptomatic of a global sickness.
"Whether you talk about paedophilia, prostitution, pornography or the traffic in human organs, people are increasingly being treated as a primary resource," she said. "It is a a global problem."
NOTES - Bank of Spain announces balance of payments. Jobless figures are registered unemployed at labour ministry. Trade data are customs-cleared, published by economy ministry. Latest M4, currency reserves, industrial production data are provisional. GDP figures are quarterly on annualised basis. EPA - Quarterly survey of employment levels (INE). Data give variation in employed persons, in thousands. Last column -TOTAL- is latest for jobless and accumulated for the rest (GDP total amount corresponds to 1995). Government budget figures relate to central government finances only. **General Consumer Price Index (100=1992), Producer Prices Index and Industrial Production Index (100=1990).
-- Alex. Brown said analyst Ann Gallo reinitiated coverage of HCIA Inc with a strong buy rating.
-- shares rose 3/16 to 50-1/4.
U.S. Marines are not being sent to Haiti because of new troubles there but opponents of Haiti's new government should take the American troop presence as a sign they are being watched, a U.S. official said Tuesday.
"I think that they should realise that not only the United States, but also the United Nations and other nations in the hemisphere are watching very closely what's going on," said Capt. Mike Doubleday, a Defence Department spokesman.
The department announced Monday that 50 U.S. Marines would go to Haiti this week for seven to 10 days of training for contingencies such as protecting the U.S. Embassy or other U.S. troops in Haiti.
The Marines were scheduled to leave Tuesday but their departure has now been delayed until Wednesday, Doubleday said. Soldiers from the Army's 82nd Airborne Division went to Haiti for similar training in July.
The defence spokesman said the Marines were not being sent to Haiti in response to troubles such an attack Monday by uniformed men on a Port-au-Prince police station that killed one man and injured several others.
"We certainly don't go down there in any kind of a provocative way," Doubleday said.
"But on the other hand, I don't think that there's any reason for the Marines or the 82nd Airborne or anybody else to be shy about the fact that they have a capability, they have a (training) mission, and they are down there to fulfil that mission," he said.
* Canadian dollar ended slightly softer at C$1.3735 (US$0.7281) from Monday's close of C$1.3725 (US$0.7286) after a session of little activity. * Since the U.S. Federal Open Market Committee did not hike rates at today's meeting, some investors are now expecting a cut in Canadian interest rates.
In economic news, Canada's June trade surplus fell to C$3.14 billion from a revised record of C$3.95 billion in May, Statistics Canada said. This weaker-than-forecast number may help spur an ease this week or next, economists have said.
"All eyes are now on the Bank of Canada to see if there will be any adjustment," said CIBC foreign exchange specialist Reid Farrill. "We're in a holding pattern."
Farrill sees the unit trading in a narrow range of C$1.3725 to C$1.3750 overnight.
On the crosses, Canada's dollar stayed basically flat at 1.0830 marks and 78.83 yen from Monday's close.
Fletcher Challenge Forest Division said on Tuesday it might sell other forests to help fund the purchase of Forestry Corp of New Zealand.
Apart from the sale of other forests, Fletcher Forest would not need to raise fresh capital, Chief Executive Mike Andrews said.
He said Fletcher Forest and FCNZ's operations in the central North Island would be merged.
Indonesia's private Salim Group had received acceptances from 126.3 million QAF shares, or 39.8 percent of the bread-making company, at the close of its takeover offer on Tuesday, a company statement said.
KMP Private Ltd, an investment vehicle of the Salim group through its wholly-owned subsidiary, Qualif Pte Ltd, and parties acting in concert now hold about 231.8 million QAF shares or 73.1 percent of the company, it said.
Qualif also holds 83.58 million QAF warrants representing 66.7 percent of the warrants at the closing date, it added.
Prince Charles, whose divorce from Princess Diana becomes final in a week, emerged on Tuesday as the main advocate of radical reforms of Britain's troubled monarchy to ensure it survives into the next century.
Buckingham Palace confirmed on Monday that the prince and other members of the Royal Family are part of a strategic policy committee considering changes.
But heir-to-the-throne Charles is said to be spearheading the reforms which, if enacted, could amount to the most sweeping changes to the 1,000-year-old monarchy since the 18th century.
Among the options being considered are ending the 8.7 million pound ($13.4 million) yearly salary the queen receives from the state, allowing the monarch to marry a Roman Catholic and changing the laws of succession to allow the oldest child, even if a daughter, to take the throne.
"Charles is at the heart of a move for reforms...which amounts to a personal manifesto for how he wants to reign," The Daily Mail, a popular tabloid, said.
"The heir-to-the-throne heads a secret "cabinet' redesigning the monarchy," claimed The Daily Express.
The palace in characteristic fashion refused to divulge any details of the proposed moves or who is leading what is being dubbed a royal revolution.
"This is a strategic committee which has the head of state, the queen, the Duke of Edinburgh (the queen's consort) and the Prince of Wales involved. It is a process of discussion and decision-making, but details of what is being discussed is something I am not prepared to go into," the prince's spokeswoman said.
"Neither are we prepared to go into the roles the individual members of the royal family play."
Britain's press, which follows every move of the royal family, correctly reported the breakdown of the marriages of Prince Charles and his brother Prince Andrew and other foibles long before the palace formally admitted them.
Newspapers said the comittee, which meets twice yearly, was formed after 1992, the year in which the royal marriages collapsed and the queen agreed to end her tax-free status.
Buckingham Palace said the committee has already been instrumental in the queen's decisions to pay tax and open up Buckingham palace to tourists to help pay for repairs at Windsor Castle, which was badly damaged in a fire four years ago.
Other moves the committee is reportedly considering are reducing the royal family to only include the monarch, the consort, their children and grandchildren and ending the the ruler's traditional role as head of the Church of England.
Many of the changes, including the 295-year-old ban on the British monarch marrying a Catholic and changing 11th-century rules giving boys priority over girls in succeeding to the throne, would involve changes in English law. None of the reforms are likely to be made quickly.
Consitutional expert David Starkey told the Daily Mail that if the moves were passed it would amount to "the biggest privatisation of them all."
HOSPODARSKE NOVINY - The Czech National Bank's baance sheet totalled 612.5 billion crowns as of August 10.  Compared to the most recent figures from the end of July, this is an increase of 9 billion crowns.
- The Ministry of Agriculture wants to considerably change the current regulation of the grain market.  The new system should bring price stabilisation not only for farmers, but also for customers.  Ministers are to discuss the new system in parliament today.
- A group led by Motoinvest has been gathering shares of Ceska Sporitelna for several months with the intention of taking a substantial stake in the institution which manages the majority of personal deposits in the Czech Republic.  According to well-informed sources, the group may already control 15 percent of the shares representing 18 percent of the voting rights.
- Sales of the Skoda Felicia automobile have increased by 116 percent in Austria in the first half of 1996, making it the second-most successful make of automobile after the Opel Vectra. Some 6,258 Felicias were sold by the end of July in Austria.
- Rail fares will increase by a maximum of 40 percent from March or April next year, the Minister of Transportation, Martin Riman, confirmed yesterday, adding that this marks the first fare increase in two years.
- Dental a.s., which controls 70 percent of the Czech and Slovak market for dental materials, decided at its shareholders meeting not to pay any dividends on last year's net profit of 2.5 million crowns.
MLADA FRONTA DNES - Czech senatorial candidates can recieve pre-election donations from anyone and do not have to publicize these sources to the public.  Even the parties they are representing do not have access to their sources of income.
Singapore oil product prices were steady on Tuesday, despite crudes taking a breather from a recent rally, with fuel oil well supported by strong buying interests, traders said.
Additional gas oil supplies were seen from Taiwan that has issued a tender to sell up to 250,000 barrels for end-September lifting. Traders were pinning hopes on Indonesia that was projected to buy around three million barrels for September, compared with about two million for August. Paper gas oil fell 30 cents late in the day on crude's weakness to be last traded at $25.45 from $25.75 earlier.
- During the last six months 33 foreign insurance companies have formally applied to set up business in Norway under the European Economic Area agreement. The Norwegian organization for insurers says it is not worried about possible competition from foreign companies. Except for Swedish-owned Vesta, the foreign companies are practically non-existent in the private market.
- Norwegian salmon producers want support from parliament against British accusations of dumping. Today a delegation of senior civil servants is meeting the EU Commission in Brussels to discuss the accusations that Norway subsidises production.
- The agrarian-based Centre Party wants to postpone a debate in parliament on a new housing tax, saying it should be seen in a wider context. Discussions have been going on since the ruling Labour Party suggested to alter current housing taxes earlier this year.
- Over 50 Norwegian municipalities have offered land for the Coca-Cola Company's new plant.
The coupon and conversion price will be decided on August 28.
Merrill Lynch & Co.
Smith Barney Inc.
Roosevelt & Cross, Inc.
Dean Witter Reynolds Inc.
A.G. Edwards & Sons, Inc.
Lebenthal & Co., Inc.
Samuel A. Ramirez & Company, Inc.
El Al Israel Airlines is considering using a Boeing 747 aircraft for its weekly Tel Aviv to Hong Kong service, providing another seven tonnes of cargo capacity and a non-stop service, the carrier's general manager for China, Hong Kong and east Asia, Abraham Roter said.
He was speaking to Reuters in a telephone interview from Beijing.
An informal air services agreement currently exists between the two countries which allows the Israeli flag carrier to offer a once weekly service on Thursdays from Hong Kong to Tel Aviv with a refuelling stop in Tashkent.
Roter said the airline is now considering a Boeing 747 -- instead of the current Boeing 767 -- which would increase cargo capacity from 10 to 17 tonnes and be non-stop from Tel Aviv. But he said the return flight would have a stop, possibly in Bombay.
"The route is getting better and we could utilise better capacity for the passenger. Negotiations towards a bilateral agreement have been going on for almost a year between the two governments. They have still to be signed but that is a formality," Roter said.
"We would like to intensify our operation in the Far East because we believe there is tremendous potential here. And with the continuation of the Middle East peace process we can see a big market for tourism in the eastern Mediterranean for people from this part of the world," he added.
El Al now fly to six Asian destinations: Hong Kong, Beijing, South Korea, Bangkok, Delhi and Bombay.
A Hong Kong government spokeswoman confirmed that talks had taken place between Israel and Hong Kong to review the current informal arrangement. She said a formal air services agreement is not needed for El Al flights to continue after next year's Hong Kong handover to China.
"We have informal agreements with many other countries of which Israel is one and it has been reviewed. There may have been changes to the confidential memorandum of understanding between the countries but even if it had been changed it would not be disclosed," she said.
Portuguese state-controlled cement group Cimpor-Cimentos de Portugal has potential to invest up to 250 billion escudos ($1.6 billion) in foreign acquisitions up to the year 2001, a company source said on Tuesday.
The source said the investment plan depended on Cimpor's ability to maintain cash flow and not to allow debts to reach 30 percent of total assets. Cimpor has negligible debt now.
"We will only make the investment if we find the right opportunities," the source told Reuters.
"We would be interested in making an investment if the expected profit exceeded the capital costs. We are looking for interesting opportunities for investment."
Cimpor would seek possible investments after the scheduled privatisation of a 45 percent stake in the company expected in October, the source said.
Cimpor was considering Spain, South America, and northern and southern Africa as potential areas to acquire cement manufacturers, the source added.
This month Cimpor bought Moroccan cement firm Asment Temara for 11.8 billion escudos ($77 million).
It also owns a subsidiary in Spain, Corporacion Noroeste, and in Mozambique, Empresa de Cimentos de Mocambique.
Cimpor shares stood at 3,370 escudos, up five, in volume of 10,750 shares on Lisbon bourse in early afternoon trade.
Average discounts on UK investment trusts were stable at the end of July at 10.86 percent, slightly down from the June average of 10.94 percent, a statement from the Association of Investment Trust Companies (AITC) showed.
There was also evidence discounts could be narrowing again. Figures from the Datastream Consortium List showed the average discount at nine percent on August 14, the AITC said.
Ernest Fenton, director general of the AITC noted that discounts are "often misunderstood by individual investors."
He said "Discounts are not an automatic indication of poor performance or poor returns on investments. In fact, the most popular funds -- generalist investment trusts -- show a 11-12 percent discount and have an exemplary record over the last 10 years."
Since 1986, the average discount has hit a low of 4.11 percent in 1994 and a high of 22.08 percent in 1987, AITC data showed.
In sector averages at the end of June, property, Continental Europe, Emerging market, single country funds and venture and development capital funds had the highest discounts (above 18 percent) while the lowest discounts applied to Far East funds, including and excluding Japan.
At the end of July, the highest discounts hit North American, Continental Europe and single country funds while the lowest were closed end funds.
European credit rating agency IBCA said on Tuesday it affirmed its long-term foreign currency debt rating of Italy at AA minus and said the country may have finally turned the corner in its battle for fiscal reform.
"The rating applies to $92.9 billion of senior and unsecured foreign currency debt obligations of the Republic and sets a ceiling for the foreign currency rating of all Italian entities," IBCA said in a statement.
IBCA also confirmed its rating of A1 plus for short-term foreign currency issues and assigned a long-term local currency rating of AAA to sovereign debt.
"The small reduction in the public debt to GDP ratio in 1995 - the first since 1980 - signals a possible turning point in Italy's problematic fiscal policy," the agency said.
But IBCA said the path would not be easy.
"A relatively small adverse shift in the macroeconomic environment will be sufficient to blow the government's public debt to gdp projections off course," it said. "IBCA is projecting that the public debt to GDP ratio will rise this year, although it should fall in the more favourable macroeconomic environment expected in 1997."
In July, rating agency Moody's Investors Service raised its foreign currency sovereign ceiling rating on Italy to Aa3 from A1. In late April, Standard & Poor's affirmed its AA foreign currency rating for Italy.
IBCA said Italy had considerable strengths as a sovereign credit. These were illustrated by "the continued dynamism" of the private sector, a current account surplus and a high savings ratio. "These aspects of the economy have allowed Italy to sustain high public debt without having to draw on foreign savings," it said.
The Australian government announced on Tuesday a range of measures aimed at what is said was tax avoidance by companies and wealthy individuals.
Changes were also announced to industry assistance schemes and import duty schemes and costs that would affect companies.
The government also announced changes to capital gains and other taxes that it said would help small businesses and poor pensioners.
* Amendments to the tax rules over lease arrangements on luxury cars so they are treated as loan transactions, with the lessee now treated as the owner instead of the lessor.
* Moves to stop wholesale sales tax fraud in the computer industry, including a review of the exemption for on-sellers.
* Changes to the non-resident witholding tax arrangements, including the application of the Income Tax Assessment Act to non-resident interest, dividend and royalty taxes.
* Measures to ensure companies that are dual residents will be treated as non-residents for tax purposes.
* the removal of the income tax exemption granted to "bona fide" minerals prospectors.
* amendments to the capital gains tax rules over transfer of capital losses and the liquidation of groups.
* The premium rate for tax deduction on Research and Development spending will be cut to a maximum of 125 percent from the current 150 percent.
* Confirmation of announced changes to the R&D tax regime including the abolition of concessions for R&D partnerships and syndicates.
* Changes to the Export Market Development Grants Scheme (EMDG) which caps spending at A$150 million a year from 1996/97 onwards and makes it more accesible for small business. The eligibility threshold will be lowered to A$20,000 from A$30,000 and firms with a turnover of more than A$50 million will be excluded. Joint venture applications from the tourism industry will now be considered.
* New user charges for Customs' service activities associated with imports, which are expected to raise A$161 million over the next four years.
* Relief from Capital Gains Tax (CGT) for small businesses selling one business and buying a new one. The rollover relief applies to businesses with assets of less than A$5 million and the new business must be bought within 12 months and be similar to the one sold previously.
* CGT exemption of up to A$550,000 for those selling a business and using the proceeds in their retirement.
* Tax law amendments to bring equity investments in small to medium sized enterprises by lending institutions into the Capital Gains Tax regime. The government said this would give an incentive to institutions to invest long term in small business.
* Fringe Benefits Tax exemption for housing provided by farmers for workers in remote areas.
Aztech said in a statement accompanying its half-year results that the climate for the electronics industry would continue to be difficult and competitive pressures would remain during the second half of 1996.
Aztech earlier announced a net loss of Singapore $17.72 million for the six months to June 30, 1996.
"Through such, and other measures, the group expects to contain its losses," the statement said.
Palestinian President Yasser Arafat arrived in Tunis on Tuesday to discuss the stalled Middle East peace process with President Zine al-Abidine Ben Ali, PLO and Tunisian officials said.
They said Arafat is expected to ask Tunisia to help overcome obstacles put by the new hardline Israeli government in the way of implementing the PLO-Israel 1993 interim peace deal and the resumption of talks on the final status of the West Bank and Gaza Strip.
A group of 110 Cuban doctors arrived in South Africa on Tuesday, joining their 96 compatriots who have been working in impoverished areas since February.
The latest group, which includes surgeons, paediatricians and gynaecologists, will stay for three years to help in rural and township hospitals which are under severe pressure with the departure of many young South African doctors not prepared to put up with long hours, poor pay and spiralling crime.
Under a health cooperation accord, a third group of 250 Cuban specialists is due in South Africa in November, followed by a fourth group, which will take the eventual number to 600.
South Africa's Deputy Foreign Minister Aziz Pahad told a news conference on a visit to Cuba recently the South African press had initially been sceptical about the Cuban doctors.
"But they have done so well in their professional work and in their relations with our people that they have become excellent ambassadors," Pahad said.
Surveys show up to half of South Africa's English-speaking medical graduates emigrate soon after qualifying. Only 22,000 doctors serve the population of about 43 million.
The Texas Railroad Commission Tuesday set September production allowables for prorated natural gas fields in the state at 3.08 billion cubic feet per day (bcfd), 96 percent of actual September 1995 production.
The September allowable is 91 percent of last year's August allowable for prorated fields of 3.4 bcfd, the Texas regulatory agency said.
Texas natural gas in storage in July 1995 stood at 277.8 billion cubic feet (bcf) compared to 141.3 bcf in July this year. The agency staff said storage rose slightly to 145.3 bcf by August 15.
China has started work on a 2.2 billion yuan chemical fertiliser plant in the southern Guangxi region, the Xinhua news agency said on Tuesday.
The project would be partly financed by 10.3 billion yen in loans from the Japanese government, Xinhua said.
As of June, some 468 million yuan had been invested in the project, the agency said.
The project will use equipment from Japan, Italy, the United States and France, it said without giving further details.
-- CS First Boston analyst Michael Hoffman said he initiated coverage of American Disposal Services Inc with a buy rating, saying it was one of the least expensive stocks in the industry.
"It has the lowest valuation, great growth prospects and a great management team. It has an asset base that should sustain growth in the mid to upper-twenties over the next three to five years," Hoffman said.
-- Shares were up 1/2 at 12-1/2.
The following are the main stories from Tuesday morning's Albanian newspapers. Reuters has not verified these stories and does not vouch for their accuracy.
- A major reshuffle at several Albanian ministries, including the foreign ministry, is expected in September, a source at the prime ministry said.
- Eight political parties convened to discuss upcoming local elections. But opposition parties did not participate in the meeting which was initiated by the ruling Democrats.
- The number of foreign tourists increased in Albania in the first half of 1996 despite shortcomings in the national infrastructure.
- Albania's first airline, Albanian Airlines, went bankrupt with a deficit of $15 million after three years in operation.
- The opposition Socialist Party of jailed leader Fatos Nano plans to reduce the membership of its leadership at the second stage of its convention on August 24 and 25.
North Sea crudes were under pressure on Tuesday as Brent swaps and paper spreads failed to claw back early losses, traders said.
The prompt Sept/Oct intermonth paper spread was talked at +57/+59 cents, down about seven cents from early levels. Oct/Nov was pegged at +48 cents, about four cents weaker from Monday.
Oct Brent lost 22 cents to trade at $20.63 by 1514 GMT.
"There was a broad feeling in the market that Brent was overheated and had to come down," said a trader.
Next week's dates, which traded earlier at Oct +47 cents, traded again at +42 cents.
An Aug 29-31 Brent was on offer at Sept Brent +8 cents. Tuesday's sole set of dates (Sept 4-6) was kept well ahead of the five o'clock deadline by U.S. major Texaco and was already committed, traders said.
Other North Sea markets were quiet as buyers waited for premiums to weaken in line with the shallower Brent backwardation.
Mediterranean refiners found little to tempt them from the few cargoes on offer as they weighed up options in the face of appalling margins although there was no sign any had cut runs.
Syria's Sytrol was under pressure from buyers to keep prices down in current price talks for September cargoes with refiners asking for a rollover.
One trader said Sytrol had come down from an offer of Dated Brent -30 cents to Dated -38 cents while lifters were holding out for Dated -45 cents.
"I think the talks will last all week," an oil company trader said.
Trustmark National Bank said it won $60.5 million of Mississippi taxable general obligation bonds, with a true interest cost (TIC) of 7.2684 percent.
Rating Announcement As of 08/16/96.
    Issuer		: Tredyffrin Twp.
With the Federal Reserve holding interest rates steady at its August policy meeting, U.S. economists now expect no rate change until after the November 5th Presidential election, according to the most recent Reuters poll.
A majority of the experts -- 16 of 29 -- forecast a tightening at the November 13 meeting in response to signs of increased inflation.
"We'll see a slight tightening after the election," said Stuart Hoffman, chief economist at PNC Bank Corp.
The central bank may see signs of increased wage inflation in upcoming economic reports, but none drastic enough for a rate hike at the next meeting, Hoffman said.
But the report "would have to be a lot stronger than that" to push the Fed into a September tightening, according to Hoffman.
Michael Casey, international economist at MFR Inc, said the Federal Reserve would look closely at the manufacturing sector in the coming weeks.
Nineteen economists forecast the Fed's next move would be a tightening. Five said the central bank was on hold for the foreseeable future. And two said they expect an interest rate cut.
Two of the experts called for a change in rates in 1997 but did not specify whether interest rates would be raised or lowered.
The current survey differed slightly from a poll conducted last Friday which had 12 of 30 economists predicting a November tightening.
Firm		   Move?
Tunisia's Banque Nationale de Developpement Touristique (BNDT) on Tuesday reported a 3.443 million dinar net profit in the first half of 1996, up from 2.030 million during the same period last year.
BNDT posted 8.796 million dinars net profits for 1995, slighly up from 8.063 million dinars in 1995.
The state-controlled bank specialises in loans for the tourism sector.
"Obviously we won't run down our reserves completely. But the moment you use your credit facilities you pay interest on them, so we are trying to avoid paying interest on the facilities for as long as possible," he said in a telephone interview.
The Bank has some 15 billion in foreign credit lines it can draw on to bolster official reserves which stood at just over one month's import cover at end-July.
Stals confirmed the Bank had been active in the foreign exchange market in recent days providing liquidity by selling dollars following renewed pressure on the rand which hit an all-time low of 4.59 against the dollar late on Monday.
There had been considerable speculative transactions in recent days, he said, with markets rattled by last week's murder by car hijackers of Erich Ellmer, the German financial director of the AEG electronics group in South Africa.
"The markets were influenced by the murder of the German businessman. That certainly justified some intervention by us," Stals said.
Asked about the possibility of an increase in interest rates in the face of pressure on the currency and a tight money market, Stals said the Bank was monitoring the situation daily.
"We must be very flexible about it (moving rates)...we watch the situation develop from day to day and every day. It looks like it is getting a little bit more stable."
People's Bank said on Tuesday that it will redeem all outstanding shares of its 8.5 percent noncumulative convertible preferred stock series A on September 20, 1996 at $50 a share.
As an alternative to redemption, each share of preferred stock may be converted into shares of People's Bank common stock at a rate of 6.06 share of common stock for each preferred share, the bank said.
People's Bank shares traded at 22-1/8, unchanged from yesterday's close, on volume of 13,200 shares.
Indian castorseed December delivery prices on Tuesday fell to 1,112/1,113 rupees per quintal from 1,118 rupees on fresh offerings, traders said.
"Export demand was low while higher supplies triggered bull liquidation," one trader said.
September delivery was nominally quoted at 1,085/1,090 rupees. "September volumes were negligible as outstanding business had already switched over to December delivery," he said. Groundnut oil fell to 431/432 rupees per 10 kg from 435 on demand resistance while improved arrivals triggered light profit-taking.
The Bundesbank said it would release German M3 money supply data for July shortly.
Analysts expect a further slowdown in the M3 money aggregate, the Bundesbank's main monetary policy indicator, with forecasts for annualised M3 growth ranging between 8.5 and 9.2 percent in July, down from 9.6 percent in June. Forecasts average 8.8 percent.
The Bundesbank's target range for 1996 M3 money supply growth is four percent to seven percent.
Halcyon/Alan B. Slifka Management Co. L.L.C. of New York said it had bought a total of 820,000 common shares of Circo Craft Co Inc, or about 5.31 percent of the total outstanding.
In a statement issued late on Monday, Halcyon said the shares had been bought by Aug 16 for accounts managed by it.
The statement said that 137,700 of the shares had been acquired through The Toronto Stock Exchange and the Montreal Stock Exchange since Aug 9. That is the date of the takeover bid by C-MAC Industries Inc for Circo Craft.
The statement said Halcyon/Alan B. Slifka Management Co. L.L.C. had purchased the shares for investment purposes and may continue to buy and may sell such common shares based upon its evaluation of the market conditions and the price which may be obtained.
Spyglass Inc said Tuesday it launched a new version of its Web Server Software Development Kit, which it said is the first to be fully compatible with both Microsoft Corp and UNIX platforms.
The software also provides improved features such as file caching and secure communications, Spyglass said.
Pricing for the software starts at $25,000, which includes 100 licenses and a one-year support and maintenance contract.
U.S. Commerce Secretary Mickey Kantor on Tuesday said that growth in the U.S. trade deficit with China this year has been slower than in recent years, "but it's still too high."
Monthly figures released from the Commerce Department showed that the overall U.S. trade gap narrowed by 23.1 percent in June to $8.11 billion.
That was larger than the June trade gap with Japan of $3.24 billion.
Speaking to reporters following the release of the trade report, Kantor said the United States was "extremely resolute" in focusing on what he said was unfair discrimination by China U.S. imports. He said that focus would continue.
U.S. barge rates were mostly steady on Tuesday on the St. Louis Merchants Exchange call session. No barges traded on Tuesday versus no trades on Monday.
- Two barges, next week, Illinois River, no bid, offered 100 percent.
- Two barges, next week, Mid-Mississippi, no bid, offered 110 percent, unchanged.
- Two barges, next week, lower Ohio river, no bid, offered 105 percent.
- Two barges, next week, Mississippi (Osceola through Cairo), no bid, offered 95 percent.
- Two barges, one each week of September 15-September 22, Mid-Mississippi, bid 165 percent of tariff, no offer.
- Five barges, one each week of September, Mid-Mississippi, no bid, offered 167-1/2 percent.
- Two barges, week of October 6, Mississippi (Lacrose-Savage) bid 220 percent, no offer.
The Commodity Credit Corp said on Tuesday it is seeking up to 16,000 tonnes of U.S. No. 2 hard red winter or soft red winter or soft white wheat for donation to Tajikistan.
Shipment period is set for September 15-October 10. Offers are due on August 29.
The CCC, which is part of the U.S. Department of Agriculture, said the wheat must come from U.S. areas where Karnal Bunt (Tilletia Indica) is not known to occur. It must also be tested for vomitoxin.
Preliminary figures for Brazil's commercial and financial foreign exchange contracts showed a $32.2 million surplus on August 19 in the commercial forex market, according to Central Bank data supplied to banks.
A banker with access to the figures said the central bank issued the following breakdown.
Note - figures were rounded off.
Peru's private National Cotton Society issued Tuesday cotton prices, which will be in effect until Aug 26.
The new list of prices, which vary according to type and quality, showed no changes from the week before.
-Tanguis seed (superior) - no price given.
-Pima seed (superior) - 275 soles ($112.25) for 3.64 quintals.
-Mountain seed (superior) - no price given.
-Tanguis ginned (3 1/2 grade - 1.5/32 inches) - $87.00 a quintal.
-Pima ginnned (1 grade - 1.9/16 inches) - no price given.
-Mountain ginned (1 grade - 1 3/8 inches) - no price given.
One tonne is equivalent to 21.74 quintals.
Detroit Diesel Corp said Tuesday it plans to establish a new engine manufacturing operation in Brazil to provide diesel engines to Chrysler Corp.
The engines will be used for Chrysler's new Dakota assembly plant in Brazil and for a Jeep Cherokee assembly plant in Argentina.
The engines will also be used by a Chrysler Jeep assembly plant in Toledo, Ohio, for use in export production.
Chrysler said Tuesday it plans to build a manufacturing plant in Brazil to assemble a new Dakota pickup truck. It also said it will add production of its Jeep Cherokee sport utility vehicle at a plant under construction in Argentina.
"This new operation represents a continuation of our global partnership with Chrysler," Detroit Diesel Chairman Roger Penske said in a statement. Detroit Diesel currently supplies almost 40,000 engines a year to Chrysler assembly plants in the United States and Europe.
Detroit Diesel said it plans to supply Chrysler with 15,000 engines the first year following start of production, building to 30,000 engines a year within three years.
This new operation could also be a South American base for other Detroit Diesel products and markets, Penske said.
The company's VM Turbotronic 425 engine is intended to meet local content requirements of 60 percent within three years and Detroit Diesel said it is confident it will meet that goal. It currently imports about $24 million worth of material from Brazil used in Detroit Diesel engines a year.
Detroit Diesel makes, remanufactures, sells and services heavy-duty diesel and alternative fuel engines, automotive diesel engines and related products.
Command Petroleum Ltd said a water injection well drilled in the Ravva contract area offshore India has indicated additional reserves of oil in the Ravva field.
It said the RD-3 well, the first of five down-flank water injection wells to be drilled in the next two years, intersected a greater than predicted oil column of a gross 210 feet.
There was 172 feet of net oil pay with an average porosity of 24 percent, it said.
"Repeat Formation Testing (RFT) indicates that the two main (M30 and M20) reservoirs in the well are in communication with each other and with the equivalent reservoir units in the three producing wells drilled along the crest of the structure," Command said.
This suggested that oil will be efficiently recovered from the reservoir, it said.
A previously undrilled three metre net oil sand with an average porosity of 25 percent was also encountered by the well about 548 feet above the main reservoir.
During the field's life, the oil encountered in the main reservoir in RD-3 will be accessed by, and produced through, the crestal wells, Command said.
RD-3 will, therefore, be completed as a dual oil producer-water injector and will be used as an oil producer in the short term, prior to the need for pressure maintenance.
The next well to be drilled is the RE-1 oil development well, it said.
RD-3 was drilled at inclinations up to 45 degrees although all depths and thicknesses quoted in its report have been corrected to true vertical depths, Command said.
The bottom hole location of RD-3 is about 1100 metres southwest of the RD platform, it added.
Participating interests in Ravva are India's state-owned Oil & Natural Gas Corp Ltd 40 percent, Command Petroleum (India) Pty Ltd (operator) 22.5 percent, Videocon Group unit Videocon Petroleum Ltd 25 percent and Marubeni Corp unit Ravva Oil (Singapore) Pte Ltd 12.5 percent.
Indonesia's leading cigarette maker PT Handjaya Mandala Sampoerna said on Tuesday it had no link to a move by majority owner Putera Sampoerna to take over Transmarco Holdings of Singapore.
"It is a private investment of Putera Sampoerna and his son Jonathan and there is no connection with PT HM Sampoerna," Ekadharmajanto Kasih, chief financial officer of the firm, told Reuters.
Miel Investment Corp, wholly-owned by Putera Sampoerna, said on Saturday it was making a conditional takeover offer for Transmarco Holdings, a trading and telecommunications company.
Australia's new conservative government has dramatically boosted spending for families and the elderly in its 1996/97 budget, released on Tuesday.
Treasurer Peter Costello delivered a promised tax rebate to low and middle income families.
The family tax initiative, to apply from January, would cost the government A$395.0 million in fiscal 1996/97 (July-June), rising to A$1.081 billion a year by 1999/00, budget papers show.
The family tax initiative increased the tax-free threshhold -- below which no tax is paid -- by A$1,000 for the first child for double-income families earning less than A$70,000 a year.
The eligible income rises A$3,000 for each extra child.
The benefit lifts the tax-free threshhold A$2,500 a year for single-income families with a taxable income less than A$65,000 a year.
The benefit would be paid in cash to low income families.
The increase follows the government's pledge in the March 2 election campaign to increase spending on hostels, home and community care packages and widen eligibility for payments to partners of pensioners, and index pension payments twice yearly to peg them at 25 percent of average weekly male earnings.
Costello's budget also increased the age limit for contributions to pension savings schemes, known as superannuation, and allowed capital gains tax exemptions for small businesses sold to fund retirement.
Taking its cue from oil majors, the trading arm of Malaysian state oil firm Petronas is striking more term oil product contracts with end users at the expense of traders, industry sources said on Tuesday.
Petco earlier this month signed its most recent term deal -- to supply South Korean refiner Hanwha Energy with up to 1.2 million barrels of jet/kerosene for this winter.
"Petco is doing away with traders and trying new avenues for the marketing of their products," one trader said.
A Petco source declined to comment on the specifics of the deal but said it was in line with the company's aim of "going international."
"This is nothing new. We had contracts before with other endusers in Bangladesh, Pakistan and Zimbabwe," the source said.
It also has term contracts with Japanese and South Korean endusers for the supply of naphtha and low sulphur waxy residue, traders said. In the past, the company had term diesel contracts with Pakistan's Ministry of Petroleum and Natural Resources and Indian Oil Corp.
The moves by Petco reflect moves already taken by oil majors in the region who no longer have term contracts with traders and are actively selling directly to endusers instead.
"What Petco is doing is not very different from this", he added.
Majors previously would not participate in regional tenders such as that issued by Vietnam, traders said.
Petco's move in North Asia is seen by traders as part of the company's effort to broaden their market presence from the Indian sub-continent and East Africa.
The move into North Asia is Petco's way of selling directly the product it produces from the 100,000 bpd refinery in Malacca and the 50,000 bpd refinery in Kertih, traders said.
U.S. stocks were expected to continue in a holding pattern ahead of tuesday's meeting of the Federal Reserve's Open Market Committee.
Despite almost universal agreement that the Fed will opt against an interest rate increase at the meeting, analysts said there was little chance the market would choose today to snap out of its quiet, summertime ways.
"There may be some more volume today but it should shape up like yesterday, limited to special situations," said Larry Wachtel, market analyst at Prudential Securities.
The Australian Labor Party, which is the largest opposition party in the Senate, would vote against an increase in university fees announced in the budget for 1996/97, Labor Treasury spokesman Gareth Evans said.
The increased Higher Education Contribution Scheme (HECS) charges were projected to save A$1.77 billion over the next four years. "HECS will do for a start," Evans told Australian Broadcasting Corp television, when asked what his party would block in the Senate.
Evans would not specify which other budget measures Labor would vote against. But he repeated his pledge not to block spending bills, known as supply bills.
"We're pledged not to block supply," he said.
Earlier on Tuesday, Labor senator Mal Colston resigned from the Labor party and was elected deputy president of the Senate with the support of the Liberal/National coalition government.
"It adds further complication to an already complicated management situation in the Senate," Evans said.
Treasurer Costello delivered a budget forecasting an underlying deficit of A$5.65 billion in the year to June 30, 1997, including A$3.9 billion of budget deficit cuts.
Australian Treasurer Peter Costello handed down the new conservative government's 1996/97 budget on Tuesday and announced an underlying deficit for the fiscal year of A$5.65 billion and a headline surplus of A$474 million. Following are a selection of economists' immediate reactions to the budget and GDP data, also released on Tuesday.
"They delivered the near to A$8.0 bln cuts they promised over two years. (Savings measures contain) a very big contribution from PDI (public debt interest) savings and if that's from privatisations, for example, it doesn't make the actual outlay cuts look quite as large."
"I have always said -- and the Reserve Bank made this clear -- that if we have a good budget through the Senate and if we have a programme to get Australia out of deficit and debt reduction, that will take the pressure off interest rates," Costello said in a radio interview.
He remark follows his presentation of the budget to parliament on Tuesday night.
Costello and Prime Minister John Howard both said in the lead-up to the budget's presentation that the government's aim to cut debt and eliminate the budget deficit would make another interest rate cut more likely.
The Reserve Bank of Australia cut its official cash rate by 50 basis points last month.
The Federal Statistical Office reported the following economic indicator details.
Progressive Enterprises Ltd said on Wednesday it would reduce its investment in restaurant chain Georgie Pie.
Levi Strauss & Co, the 140-year-old jean maker, unveiled a new line of men's dress pants called Slates, marking only the third major brand of clothing to be launched in the company's history.
Levi is backing the launch with a $20 million marketing program that will put the Slates line in as many as 1,500 stores along with its Levi's jeans and Dockers casual slacks by the end of this month.
"We're going to awaken a sleeping giant of a category that we think has enormous potential," Jann Westfall, president of the Slates brand, said in a statement.
rates for leading currencies on Tuesday were as follows.
29, 1995 rate. Thursday was a holiday in Greece.
NOTE: FY96 amounts restated to reflect May and June 1996 acquisitions of AneuRx Inc and InStent Inc, which accounted for as pooling of interests.
Terrified civilians flooded out of Grozny on Tuesday after a top Russian military official threatened to use aircraft and heavy artillery to drive separatist forces from the Chechen capital.
The refugees, many with little more than the clothes they wore, said Russian planes had started bombing the city, much of it already in ruins from attacks at the start of Russia's campaign to crush Chechnya's independence bid in late 1994.
"The whole city is on its way out," said Nina Madayeva, who said 12 planes had bombed Grozny's southwestern Chernorechye district overnight. "We've been in a basement for 14 or 15 days and couldn't stand it any more."
Konstantin Pulikovsky, Russia's acting commander in Chechnya, said his forces had begun artillery attacks on the rebels who took over most of Grozny on August 6, and would bomb the city if needed to drive them out.
But he denied that bombing had already started.
Pulikovsky's superior, Vyacheslav Tikhomirov, returned from holiday to Grozny and said he was determined to get the rebels out of the city, Interfax news agency said.
"For that we are ready to use all means, political and military," it quoted him as saying.
"I have so far not cancelled Konstantin Pulikovsky's ultimatum. I am currently getting back into my job, but I can say one thing: serious measures will be taken against the separatists unless they leave Grozny."
With the region on the brink of all-out war and President Boris Yeltsin reported to have gone on holiday, arguments broke out in Moscow over who was running policy on Chechnya.
Russia's influential Security Council, whose secretary, Alexander Lebed was put in charge of resolving the conflict last week by Yeltsin, cast doubt over the authenticity of the president's latest orders on the region.
A Security Council statement said Yeltsin did not appear to have been involved in drawing up the order to retake Grozny from the rebels, which carried a facsimile of his signature.
It said carrying the order out would ruin peace efforts undertaken by Lebed and wreck a ceasefire deal he agreed with the separatist leaders.
"This would mean in fact the beginning of a large-scale military operation involving aviation and artillery, which would naturally lead to heavy losses among federal troops, massive deaths among the civilian population...and a justified burst of resentment in the country," the statement said.
The presidential press office said Yeltsin had left for Valdai, some 350 km (220 miles) northwest of Moscow. But an official in the Novgorod region where Valdai is located said they knew nothing about the visit.
Lebed and rebel leaders agreed last week to arrange a truce to allow peace negotiations to resume in a region racked by conflict which has cost tens of thousands of lives in 20 months.
Pulikovsky, who signed the ceasefire order on Saturday, accused the guerrillas of using the truce to dig in in the regional capital, much of which they seized two weeks ago.
"I see force as the only way out of the situation in Grozny," he told Interfax news agency.
Rebel chief-of-staff Aslan Maskhadov appealed to Kremlin security chief Alexander Lebed, who has held talks with the rebels and opposed the use of aircraft, to rein in the troops.
Yeltsin's special envoy to Chechnya should "use all of his influence to stop the approaching madness", Interfax quoted Maskhadov as saying.
Itar-Tass news agency said Lebed would travel to Chechnya on Wednesday -- his third visit to the region in just over a week. Tass said Lebed remained committed to a peaceful solution to the Chechen conflict.
Officials at Phoenix, Arizona, airport said they aim to win Deutsche Lufthansa and KLM NV as new clients on the heels of British Airways and LTU International Airways.
Phoenix marketing director Ann Hastings said she aims to establish several European routes to the Arizona state capital over the next 18 months.
She told Reuters in a telephone interview while on a Germany sales tour: "We want to plan with Lufthansa or KLM within the next 18 months."
These could be the parent airlines or their respective charter subsidiaries, Condor and Martinair, she noted.
British Airways launched the first international service to Phoenix on July 1 with the start of a daily DC-10 flight from Gatwick.
German leisure airline LTU has announced it will start a weekly Monday service from Duesseldorf on November 4.
Hastings said: "Our top priority is to ensure and support these two initial European routes because the success of these routes will influence other airlines."
She noted: "Travellers are very familiar with California and Florida and want new destinations. Arizona is tipped to be the next 'in' destination."
Germany is Arizona's largest European passenger travel market followed by the UK, she added.
Phoenix Airport handled 27.8 million passengers in 1995, a rise of 8.7 percent, with an approximate 50-50 mix of leisure and business travellers, she added.
Taiwan share prices rebounded from an early slide on Tuesday to close slightly higher on news that China had issued rules governing direct shipping links with estranged Taiwan, brokers said.
China's official Xinhua news agency said the regulations were effective immediately, although Taipei still bans direct shipping links across the Taiwan strait.
"The news on direct shipping immediately triggered a rebound on China-concept shares, as it should help ease recent tensive Taiwan-China relations," said Alex Yang of National Securities.
China-concept shares are those in Taiwan firms with major investments or investment plans in China. Shipping giant Yang Ming Marine and Evergreen Marine rose T$1.1 and 40 cents to T$36 and T$46.5, respectively.
After seeing the opening break below psychological support at 6,000, bargain hunters immediately entered, brokers said.
"A technical rebound after breaking 6,000 was widely expected," said Tank Hung of Yuanta Securities. "Today's bargain hunters were likely foreign funds or government-related funds."
Many local institutional investors have sold heavily on recent Taiwan-China tensions. Foreign institutions have not.
"Foreign funds intend to establish their portfolios before Morgan Stanley starts to include Taiwan into its global indices in September," Lee said.
Brokers expected the index to consolidate in the near term as Taiwan-China tensions linger after President Lee's comment and Vice-President Lien Chan's secret journey to an unidentified country -- which is expected to anger China.
For Wednesday, a 6,020-6,100 range was seen.
Short-term interbank rates in Kuala Lumpur rose by 10-20 basis points after Bank Negara intervened in the market to borrow for a one-month deposit, dealers said on Tuesday.
They said one-month interbank rose to 7.10/15 percent against 7.00/05 before the intervention.
There were gains in longer-term rates too. Three-month interbank rate was up at 7.20/25 against 7.15/18 in early trading and six-month money rose to 7.25/30 against 7.23/25.
Earlier, Bank Negara Malaysia returned to the market after nearly three months to borrow for a one-month deposit at 6.95 to 7.05 percent against 6.95 previously.
But, it has not been in the market since May 24 despite rising liquidity that has pressured rates downward, threatening to thwart the Bank's tight monetary policy.
Money market dealers said the intervention indicated that Bank Negara has not eased its tight monetary policy.
While the volume that Bank Negara took was not known, it was expected to give a psychological boost to interest rates, particularly for short-term rates, dealers said.
The Czech National Bank (CNB) fixed the crown at 26.630 to the dollar after Monday's fixing at 26.702, and at 17.865 to the mark from 17.910.
The CNB said the bid/ask quote, which applies only to traders dealing with the central bank, was 26.563/697 to the dollar, and 17.820/910 for the mark.
The crown fixing is announced daily at about 1140 CET (0940 GMT), and is within plus/minus 7.5 percent of a dollar/mark basket midpoint calculated between 11:30:00 and 11:30:59 CET.
The above rates imply a deviation from the midpoint of +2.70 percent, after a deviation of +2.45 on Monday.
Brazil's current account deficit for the first seven months of 1996 stood at 2.8 percent of gross domestic product, versus 3.9 percent in the same period a year ago, a senior Finance Ministry official said.
Jose Roberto Mendonca de Barros, economic policy secretary, told reporters the current account deficit in the period January to July this year amounted to $9.554 billion.
Following July's $334 million trade deficit, the current account deficit in that month was $2.013 billion.
Shark cartilage may play a role in curbing blood vessel growth and restricting the spread of cancers, according to new research by New Zealand's Wellington Medical School.
"We have now established that there is some validity to the claim that shark cartilage can inhibit blood vessel growth," Paul Davis, leader of a research team at the medical school, told Reuters on Tuesday.
Blood vessel growth is required for tumours to spread.
Sharks have a low incidence of cancer, and ground shark cartilage has for years been used as a folk remedy for tumours, arthritis and other ailments. But there has been little scientific evidence of its effectiveness.
Davis said that after a year's work his team had found that in rats fed cartilage from sharks, the development of blood vessels in abnormal tissue was reduced by up to 70 percent.
"It's an early step but it's a significant one," Davis said. He stressed the research was a long way from showing that shark cartilage was a "cure" for cancer. "But what we would like to think is that it will at least slow the spread."
Davis added: "What it's going to do is, rather than putting people on chemotherapies and radiotherapies to try and stop the progression, you may be able to use a compound like this."
"If you can at least hold it while you're trying to kill the cancer cells, then the job in theory should be easier," he said.
HBO & Co shares slumped four to 57-3/4 after Morgan Keegan started coverage of the stock with underperform, a trader said.
HBO produces patient care, clinical and financial software products.
French insurer Axa SA on Tuesday reported a 24.5 percent rise in first-half revenues, powered by consolidation of Australian life insurer National Mutual acquired last year.
Axa, one of France's Big Four insurers, said in a statement revenues rose to 81.93 billion francs ($16.10 billion) from 65.81 billion francs.
The increase "primarily reflected the consolidation of National Mutual during the period," said the company, the most geographically diversified of France's insurers.
Axa acquired control of National Mutual last year for $A1.1 billion.
Revenues rose 8.8 percent on a constant currency and structure basis.
Shares rose following the figures but underperformed the CAC-40 index of 40 leading industrial shares.
Life insurance made the biggest contribution to revenues rising 34.9 percent to 42.68 billion francs. European life insurance revenues rose 16.1 percent to 15.14 billion.
Non-life insurance revenues rose 3.4 pecent to 15.43 billion francs.
Reinsurance revenues were up 30.5 percent to 6.34 billion francs.
Revenues of financial services and holding companies climbed 21.5 percent to 17.48 billion francs, helped by strong U.S. growth at Donaldson, Lufkin & Jenrette and Alliance Capital Management.
Brokers took on board the strong special factors surrounding consolidation in Axa's figures but said the underlying picture looked sound.
Five accidents over 10 days could cost Taiwan's Chinese Petroleum Corp more than T$2 billion (US$72.7 million) in compensation and losses, the state-owned monopoly said on Tuesday.
"Fishermen in the Kaohsiung area and residents near the oil polluted No.5 naphtha cracker have demanded about T$1.7 billion in various types of compensation," Chinese Petroleum official Huang Yaw-hao said.
"Losses in production and repair costs are close to T$300 million over these incidents."
Negotiations for compensation were under way and plaintiffs have asked for a final deal by Friday, Huang said.
Angry residents have threatened public protests over five separate CPC since August 9 -- three fires, an undersea pipeline leak that fouled the ocean and another oil leak on land.
As many as 8,000 Kaohsiung fishermen are demanding about T$1.2 billion ($43.6 million) in compensation.
Representatives of more than 5,000 residents claiming to have been affected by an August 9 oil leak near the No.5 naphtha cracker met with Chinese Petroleum executives on Monday to discuss damages, Huang said.
The sides failed to reach an agreement on demands of more than T$500 million ($18.18 million), he said.
Production losses alone during the shutdown of the cracker have reached T$30 million.
A leak at a CPC natural gas well that caught fire on Sunday is expected to cost the firm T$200 million in losses.
Chinese Petroleum's insurer, Chung Kuo Insurance Co Ltd is expected to pick up some of the losses.
Officials have yet to estimate the cost of the coastal cleanup and environmental damage near Chinese Petroleum's ruptured underwater oil pipeline.
Mexico's same-day Cetes rate plummeted on the secondary money market  MXAAB Tuesday in anticipation of sharply lower rates at today's primary Cetes auction, dealers said.
The same-day Cetes rate closed at 23.67 percent on that date.
"People are seeing a drop of between 100 and 150 basis points in primary rates," one dealer said. "There's a lot of liquidity in the market."
Other rates fell on the secondary money market on Tuesday. The 28-day Cetes rate closed 25 basis points lower to 25 percent, and the rate on bank notes and acceptances fell 20 basis points to 26 percent.
Maturing credits for Wednesday total 3.765 billion pesos.
The mining and metals unit reported virtually unchanged sales for the period at 4.28 billion crowns, but operating profits dipped to 296 million crowns from 317 million, a fall Trelleborg said was due to the weaker economy.
However, hedging had rendered the business area immune to disadvantageous moves in currencies and metals prices over the period, it said.
The operating profit of Trelleborg's distribution division, the second largest in the group, was more than halved to 141 million crowns.
Around half of the slump was attributable to inventory losses as metals prices fell, but the unit also suffered from falling volumes and the effect of the crown appreciation on the reported sales of overseas units.
Asian dollar deposit rates were quietly steady in featureless trade, dealers said on Tuesday.
They said most traders were sidelined ahead of the outcome of the two-day Federal Open Market Committee (FOMC) meeting which starts today.
In day-to-day rates, Tuesday/Wednesday, Wednesday/Thursday and week-fixed were unchanged from Monday's common 5-3/8 5-1/4 percent, respectively.
Among longer dates, one-month was unchanged at 5-7/16 5-5/16 percent, three-months unchanged at 5-1/2 5-3/8, six-months unchanged at 5-11/16 5-9/16 and twelve-months unchanged at 5-7/8 5-3/4 percent.
Growth in M4, the broad measure of money supply in Britain, fell to a seasonally adjusted 8.8 percent on a year-on-year basis in July from 10.1 in percent June, inside the government's 3.0 to 9.0 percent monitoring range.
The data compared with market forecasts which clustered around 9.4 percent.
Analysts said the figures will give further ammunition to Chancellor of the Exchequer Kenneth Clarke if he wants to trim the country's 5.75 percent interest rates in coming months.
"It is a good figure...most people hadn't expected the figure to come back into the monitoring range, which is about the first time for six or seven months," said economist Keith Wade of Schroders.
The UK Treasury said the M4 data were "encouraging."
Gilts and short sterling inched up on the numbers.
Swedish defence and technology group Celsius AB reports for the six months to June 30, 1996, compared to a year ago.
NOTE -- Full company name of defence and technology group Celsius AB.
Nokia's A share ADS closed $0-3/8 lower at $39-5/8 in New York on Monday.
Its Wall Street closing equals about 177.12 markka. In Helsinki on Monday Nokia closed down 1.30 markka at 177.70.
Valmet's ADS (two shares) closed $0-1/4 lower at $32 on Wall Street overnight. The price equals about 71.52 markka. In Helsinki, Valmet closed 0.20 markka down at 72.20 markka.
Rauma's ADS closed down $0-1/8 at $20-1/4 on Wall Street. The price equals about 90.51 markka. In Helsinki on Monday, Rauma closed 2.50 markka higher at 92.50.
London prices of Hong Kong stocks rose modestly in quiet trading on Tuesday, with investors cautious ahead of the U.S. Federal Reserve Open Market Committee meeting, traders said.
"The market is quite firm - everyone's sitting on the sidelines waiting for the Fed meeting," said one.
"There has been a bit of strength in Hong Kong Bank (HSBC) on the back of a firm UK market today and that really accounts for the move in the London Hong Kong index," he said.
By 1350 GMT the Hang Seng London Reference index was up 36.94 points at 11,349.45.
Overnight, the Hang Seng index climbed 99.03 points to 11,312.51, helped by a rally in utility stocks.
It was the first time the index had closed above 11,300 since March.
The Philippine interbank offered rates (PHIBOR) on Tuesday were higher for most short-term maturities, while the six-month and one-year maturities were steady, traders said.
London cocoa futures ended at the top of their range after relatively active buying but traders noted little follow through to carry the market to new high ground.
One trading house was leading bids on the second-month December contract, lifting it to a high of 1,043 stg in the morning but the rally stalled in the afternoon when activity was mixed.
"It's still in a tiny range between 1,020 and 1,040," said one trader. "We saw a bit of buying but it dried up."
December closed 15 stg higher on the day at 1,040 stg a tonne -- a level which is seen as technically encouraging.
September was more subdued, ending only five stg higher at 1,019 stg, and traders said one explanation could be that it was kept in check by options players before the expiry on Wednesday.
This led to the Sept/Dec switch being traded at a 20-stg discount after a 12-stg discount on Monday.
Some traders expected holders of 1,050 stg calls to exercise their options, a move which could lead to short-covering. But others said the expiry was likely to go smoothly without many out-of-the-money declarations. Turnover was relatively good at 5,160 lots, mainly on the December contract. AA business was reported on September.
There was no fundamental news, but the next round of West African pod counts expected from the end of August may shed light on the impact of July rains.
The close at 1,040 stg is seen technically stimulating but analysts expect a band of overhead resistance up to $1,080 to pressurise the market.
The Emerging Markets Traders Association (EMTA) settled $804 million face amount of Russian loan participations on August 16.
The total amount involved 216 trades denominated in U.S. dollars, Swiss francs and Deutsche marks, it said.
The Russian loans are netted about once a month, and the amount fluctuates to reflect market interest, said Donald Goecke, EMTA's director of finance.
On July 17, a total of $1.8 billion Russian loan participations were settled, he said.
EMTA's multilateral netting facility, which is primarily used for settling Brady bonds, is an industry-wide effort to make loan trading more efficient.
Since its inception in September 1994, EMTA has settled 3,112 trades of Russian loans worth $9.1 billion in face amount, according to the trade group.
The next settlement date for Russian loan participations is October 4.
A final vote to select Surinam's next president will take place on Sept. 5, National Assembly Registrar Edmund Bleau said on Tuesday.
The ballot of the 869-member United Peoples Assembly (VVV) will bring to an end more than three months of uncertainty about the former Dutch colony's next government, Bleau said. A simple majority of the VVV, which includes regional and municipal councilors, is sufficient to name a president.
Neither the ruling New Front coalition of President Ronald Venetiaan nor the National Democratic Party of former military strongman Desi Bouterse secured enough votes in May 23 national general elections to form a government.
Despite several weeks of political bargaining, Venetiaan and Jules Wijdenbosch, Bouterse's right-hand man during the military regime of the 1980s, failed to muster the necessary two-thirds majority of the National Assembly necessary to become president in two votes earlier this month.
Venetiaan was elected president at a VVV meeting in 1991.
Sprint Corp is expected to enter the race to make the Internet as widespread for customers as the telephone, The Wall Street Journal reported on Tuesday.
The telecommunications giant, which has 15 million customers and nearly $13 billion in annual revenue, plans to announce on Tuesday a new Internet-access service aimed at consumers, a Sprint executive said.
Although Sprint has been operating a major portion of the Internet since 1992 to serve businesses, the Kansas City, Mo., company has yet to target residential customers, a move that many industry watchers have been waiting for.
* Commonwealth Aluminum Corp will buy CasTech Aluminum Group Inc for $272.7 million.
* Chrysler Corp and Detroit Diesel Corp will announce plans on Tuesday to open an assembly plant in Brazil.
* U.S. economists are warming up to the idea of an economic slowdown in the second half of 1996.
* AT&T Corp president Alex Mandl resigns to head tiny start-up company, Associated Communications Corp.
* The Dow Jones Industrial Average rose 9.99 points to 5,699.44. The Nasdaq composite index fell 2.74 points to 1,130.91.
* Department of Agriculture says farm cooperatives earned a record $2.4 billion in 1995.
* PepsiCo Inc launched a legal challenge in Venezuela to void the joint venture by Coca-Cola Co and the Cisneros Group, Pepsi's long-time bottler in Venezuela.
* Russian President Boris Yeltsin signs measures aimed at boosting revenues and slashing some of his most lavish campaign spending promises.
* A Sanyo Electric Co executive kidnapped in Mexico has been released. There was no word about whether a ransom was paid.
* Germany's Mercedes-Benz AG and Porsche AG are in talks to make a sport-utility vehicle.
-- TOP STORY - Hong Kong's unemployment rate fell below three percent for the first time in 14 months.
-- MING PAO DAILY NEWS -- Half of the sushi and sashimi samples tested by the Health Department in the past six months carried higher-than-standard bacteria levels.
-- TA KUNG PAO -- The Preparatory Committee has handed out more than 10,000 nomination forms to the 400-strong Selection Committee responsible for choosing Hong Kong's post-handover leaders.
-- SOUTH CHINA MORNING POST - China and Taiwan both fired shots in their diplomatic battle yesterday, with Beijing resuming relations with Niger and Taiwan sending its Vice-President to an unspecified European country with which it had no diplomatic ties.
-- ORIENTAL DAILY NEWS -- An 80-year-old Hong Kong-based former Kuomingtang soldier wrongfully jailed for 10 years in China was jailed again recnntly for allegedly carrying out espionage activities when visiting relatives in Henan province.
-- HONG KONG ECONOMIC JOURNAL -- Antony Leung, head of Citibank's Asia Pacific private banking operations, had resigned to join rival Chase Manhattan Bank.
-- HONGKONG STANDARD --Cheung Kong Infrastructure Holdings announced its first set of interim results, reporting an 43.89 per cent growth to $347.2 million in profit attributable to shareholders for the six months to 30 June.
-- SOUTH CHINA MORNING POST -- China's rural credit co-operatives would be merged into 2,000 co-operative banks under a People's Bank of China scheme to standardise lending activity to the agricultural sector.
Sweden's share market closed with gains on Tuesday, getting a positive injection from the drugs sector as Astra rebounded and buoyed by overseas economic data.
The general index rose 0.81 percent to close at 1952.71 after shares valued at 2.9 billion crowns changed hands.
Brokers said the mood of the market was upbeat.
"The reporting period has been much more positive than people expected," said one broker.
Market sentiment was boosted by U.S. June trade figures and Germany announcing a slowdown in M3 money supply growth.
Drug major Astra posted a seven crown gain, closing at 275 crowns, as it recovered some of its losses after posting a weaker-than-expected half year figure. The drug sector index rose 1.85 percent.
Blue chip telecoms group Ericsson was 2.5 crowns higher at 149.5 crowns.
Engineer Atlas Copco closed 1.5 crowns higher at 119.5 crowns after reporting a slightly higher than expected six month profit.
Mining and minerals company Trelleborg dropped 0.5 crowns to 85 crowns after weaker-than-hoped results.
The banking sector, however, slipped, ahead of a bout of half-year reports later this week with sector index losing 0.07 percent.
Nordbanken closed 1.5 crowns higher at 136.5 crowns, but both Handelsbanken and S-E-Banken were steady at 147.5 and 56.50 crowns respectively.
Swiss Bank Corporation has issued a total of 10 million American-style call warrants, on British Telecom plc, lead manager SBC Warburg said.
One warrant controls one share.
The ruling Communist Party said on Tuesday that Cuba's economic crisis had generated uncertainty, contradictions and increased crime in society and weakened popular support for one-party socialist rule.
It was a rare public admission of diminished support by the party, which previously insisted it enjoyed near-unanimous backing among the island's 11 million inhabitants.
The party's Central Committee said in a political analysis that economic reforms introduced to counter the recession caused by the collapse of trade and aid ties with the former Soviet bloc had created social inequalities.
This, in turn, has led to "contradictions" such as "a weakening of support for the Revolution in some social groups and persons, above all in those who attribute the cause of the crisis to our mistakes," the party said.
Other effects listed in the analysis, published in the official newspaper Granma, included an increase in crimes against state and personal property and the appearance of "entities not committed to state or government action," an apparent reference to emerging private-sector groups.
The party said it had noted some Cubans searching "in other societies for the solution to aspirations of wellbeing and consumption" -- that is, wanting to leave the country.
In addition, the economic crisis has created "feelings of insecurity, fear, suspicion, confusion, disillusionment, searching for paths of personal salvation, exacerbation of individualism and selfishness," the document said.
"The majority of the population and Cuban workers do not see a return to capitalism as the solution to our problems." But many Cubans do not fully understand that economic reforms being introduced to beat the crisis need to be gradual, orderly and managed, it said.
It said a significant number of Cubans had doubts about the efficiency of socialism in providing goods and services. Others saw the reforms as a "supposed surrender to capitalism and its economic formulas," it said, adding, "This view is not only mistaken but unfair."
Cuba's leaders have made clear that only "elements of capitalism" are being introduced, such as management, financing and market techniques, the document said.
"Retail sales remained virtually unchanged, registering in June of this year an index of 70.9, while in June of last year (the index) was 71.0," INEGI said.
It said the rise in wholesale sales was the third consecutive one. However, it fell well short of a projected average increase of 8.03 percent forecast in a Reuters survey of 12 economists. In the same survey, retail sales were expected to increase 3.02 percent.
Purchases by wholesalers increased 7.2 percent from June 1995, INEGI said. It gave no comparative figure for purchases by retailers.
NOTE - Norita Kogaku KK is a specialist maker of lenses.
The Bank of England said it provided the UK money market with a further 489 million stg of assistance at established interest rates.
Dutch money rates held broadly steady at Monday's levels in quiet Tuesday trade, despite a slowdown in German M3 money supply growth which heightened speculation of an imminent cut in Germany's repo rate.
Dealers said many players were sidelined as the market looked to the outcome of today's U.S Federal Open Market Committee meeting and Thursday's Bundesbank gathering.
The German central bank said earlier that M3 slowed to an annualised 8.6 percent in July, versus average fourth quarter 1995, from 9.6 percent in June, fuelling expectations of a 10 to 20 basis point cut in Germany's rate, equivalent to the Dutch special advances rate.
But the news generated few ripples on the Dutch money market, where rates have eased recently.
Three-month guilders were quoted down two basis points at 2.94 percent bid, while six month guilders were also two b.p. lower at 2.58 percent bid.
Dealers said overnight guilders were changing hands at an unchanged 2.87 percent.
Activity had been concentrated at the short end of the curve in the wake of the latest special advances allocation of 2.89 billion guilders at an unchanged rate of 2.7 percent.
"The allocation was tailor-made to market needs," one said.
He said the Dutch central bank was not widely expected to follow a German repo rate cut of 10 basis points, but might move in the event of a bigger reduction.
Germany's repo is currently set at 3.30 percent.
The guilder held steady against the mark, quoting at 112.175 guilders per 100 marks which was unchanged from Monday's fixing.
Talks between German retail workers' unions and shopowners aimed at resolving a four-month old pay dispute hit a further stumbling block on Tuesday, despite union optimism that a settlement could be reached.
Ulrich Walter, chief negotiator for shopowners in North Rhine-Westphalia, said an unexpected union demand for night-time bonuses for the region's 450,000 retail workers had made agreement impossible in Tuesday's talks.
Unions and employers in several federal states are resuming talks this week to agree a wage and work hours deal to cope with the liberalisation of German shopping hours in November.
Until now, unions have pressed for broad adoption of a deal struck in Rhineland-Palatinate which called for workers to get a 1.85 percent wage rise plus 20 percent extra time in lieu per hour worked after 6:30 p.m. weekdays and 2:00 p.m. Saturdays.
However the HBV services union on Tuesday called for a 55 percent bonus time in lieu for shifts between 7:30 and 8:00 p.m. The retail industry currently pays such bonuses only to truck drivers and store-room workers.
The white-collar DAG union distanced itself from the demand.
Earlier HBV's chief negotiator for North Rhine-Westphalia, Gerhard Keuchel, said there were "strong chances" for agreement during Tuesday's talks, which took place in the town of Marl.
The HDE retail industry association also pleaded for a swift end to the deadlock on the talks, which has caused four months of sporadic strike action affecting shops and wholesalers throughout Germany.
"This cannot drag on until the start of November," HDE wages expert Guenther Wassmann told German radio.
So far, employers, hit by weak consumer spending, have baulked at accepting the Rhineland-Palatinate deal and took particular issue with the 20 percent allowance demand.
However in Bavaria, DAG officials said they were confident of a positive outcome from the tenth round of their wage negotiations, which begins on Wednesday.
The DAG suspended warning strikes ahead of the talks and said it planned to suggest a compromise on the controversial 20 percent allowance.
However it warned that strikes would resume indefinitiely if employers declined the offer.
In Berlin, wage talks resumed on Tuesday morning for the region's 87,500 retail workers. Union representatives said they planned to seek an overall pay rise of five percent, to be applicable in east German states as well, in addition to the shop hours deal.
Ceat Financial Services said it made the following two-way quotes on Tuesday for dated government securities and treasury bills.
* To contribute to this daily composite rate, please telephone Samir Shah on 022 265-9000.
Sun Microsystems Inc said the company's Java WorkShop suite of software development tools will be available electronically from August 23 for an initial introductory price of $99.
The low initial price -- the suite's suggested pricing remains at $295 -- reflects Sun's intention to distribute the software tools broadly, Sun and industry executives said.
"Their goal is to have a Java tool on every desktop," said one computer industry source familiar with their strategy.
To promote this, Sun is working on a number of methods for distributing the tools, including electronic downloading and delivering it through resellers, including retail stores.
A major focus of the product is to extend the use of the development tools beyond the usual software developer community to include graphic artists, Web masters and authors and people engaged in publishing content on the Internet.
"This tool is much more integrated with the Internet than any other software tools for Java," said Weber, noting that it uses browser technology to make it easier for individuals who program computers on a more casual basis.
"These people don't think of themselves as programmers,... but they do transformations of the data much the way a programmer would do it," Weber said. "For the bottom tier, the content developer, we have included the ability to directly edit HTML pages and to marry those pages with Java applets."
HTML pages use the World Wide Web's Hypertext Markup Language which enables subjects to be cross-referenced in graphics-rich displays across the Internet.
The Java Workshop is Sun's first retail product, although the company said it would require purchasers to contact an authorized reseller so as not to compete with its partners.
The tools enable developers and others to create Java applications graphically, shielding users having to use command line coding and thus speeding and simplifying the task of programming, according to Sun Microsystems.
The company said the Java Workshop is currently in use in a number of locations developing sophisticated Java applets and applications for use on both the Internet and on internal corporate networks known as intranets.
Japan's defence minister, touring the country this week in search of alternative sites for U.S. military artillery ranges to ease the concentration of bases on Okinawa, keeps getting the same answer -- not in my backyard.
Defense Agency chief Hideo Usui, who on Monday launched a five prefecture tour to look for new hosts for the unpopular drills, was rebuffed in Shizuoka and Yamanashi prefectures, two Tokyo-area districts that are home to Japanese military ranges.
"Yamanashi is doing its part just like Okinawa," Usui was told by Yamanashi Governor Ken Amano, who stressed that his rural prefecture already had a U.S. base near Mt. Fuji.
Playing down the setback, Usui vowed "greater efforts so that the drills will not have to be held in Okinawa anymore from fiscal 1997".
Three other prefectures -- Hokkaido and Miyagi in northern Japan and Oita in the south -- have indicated there will be no welcome mat for U.S. facilities.
Usui's delicate mission is designed to flesh out an agreement reached last week by Japan and the United States to shift U.S. live-fire artillery drills from Japan's southernmost prefecture of Okinawa to five Japanese military facilities located on the main islands.
The relocation of the drills is a down payment on a wider Japan-U.S. plan to placate the restive southern island, where anti-base sentiment boiled over into massive demonstrations after the rape of a schoolgirl last year by U.S. servicemen.
Okinawa's politicians seized on the sexual assault, for which three U.S. servicemen are serving prison sentences, to highlight long-simmering discontent on tiny Okinawa, home to about 75 percent of all U.S. military facilities.
The defence minister's campaign to persuade other prefectural governors to share Okinawa's burden came as a court battle between the central government and Okinawa Governor Masahide Ota reached a critical phase.
The central government has three times sued Ota for his refusal to serve as Tokyo's proxy in forcing Okinawan landowners to renew leases for U.S. bases.
A final Supreme Court ruling on the first case, initiated last December, is slated for August 28.
The closely watched ruling would set a precedent for the other lawsuits, the most recent of which was filed last week over Ota's refusal to renew land leases for 11 U.S. military bases, including the vital Kadena air base.
The lease contracts expire next May, posing a potential threat to U.S. use of the facilities and thereby complicating U.S.-Japan security ties.
Ota has said that a U.S.-Japan agreement in April to reduce the amount of land occupied by U.S. bases by one-fifth does not go far enough to quell sentiment in Okinawa, the poorest of Japan's 47 prefectures.
To placate Okinawans, who say the sprawling U.S. bases hamper economic development, the government on Tuesday launched a panel of experts to devise schemes to promote industry and create jobs in communities where the U.S. military is located.
Okinawa will hold a referendum on the bases on September 8, just after the first anniversary of the emotive rape case -- the latest example in which local governments have turned to plebiscites to challenge unpopular central government policies.
In a non-binding referendum on August 4, citizens of Maki village in Niigata Prefecture voted against government plans to build a nuclear power plant on a local beach.
Daily average primary aluminium output in July was unchanged at 50,600 tonnes, compared with 47,700 in July 1995, provisional figures from the International Primary Aluminium Institute (IPAI) show.
The regional breakdown of primary aluminium production was as follows (in thousands of tonnes) the IPAI said.
Period ending June 30.
Note: Full name is Tarragon Oil and Gas Ltd.
Italian energy group Eni said it had sold more than 20 million ordinary shares, or some five percent, in its oilfield services arm Saipem.
"The sale of the Saipem stock forms part of Eni's strategy of enlarging the share of (Saipem) on the market and thereby increasing its liquidity," the Eni statement said.
The Saipem shares were held by Eni units Agip, Snam and Sofid, the statement said.
Saipem shares have surged since the start of the year, trading at 6,630 lire at the time of the Eni announcement against a year low of 3,390 lire recorded on January 16.
Yemen said on Tuesday that France had assured it that Eritrea would pull out troops from a disputed Red Sea island by Friday at the latest.
"French envoy Francis Gutman told me that Eritrea will withdraw from the (Lesser Hanish) island next Friday as a maximum date," Yemeni President Ali Abdullah Saleh told a group of judges.
France said on Monday that Eritrea had agreed to withdraw its forces from the island, cooling a dispute with Yemen that had threatened to derail an arbitration accord between the two Red Sea states signed in Paris in May.
"Eritrea is going to withdraw from this island. In this way the arbitration procedure intended to peacefully resolve the two nations' differences can now proceed normally," a French Foreign Ministry spokeswoman said.
There has been no confirmation from Eritrea of the decision.
Yemen earlier threatened to take military action against Eritrea if mediation failed to defuse the crisis triggered by its sending troops to the island earlier this month.
Both states claim islands, which lie near tanker routes at the Red Sea's southern entrance, and fought briefly over them last December.
The National Bank of Slovakia (NBS) fixed the crown at 30.468 to the dollar after Monday's fixing at 30.472, and at 20.446 to the mark from 20.444.
The crown fixing is announced daily at about 1140 CET (0940 GMT), and is within plus/minus 5.0 percent of a dollar/mark basket midpoint calculated at exactly 11:30:00 CET.
The above rates imply a deviation from the midpoint of +0.30 percent, after a deviation of +0.30 percent on Monday.
Twenty highest dividend yields for Australian companies included in the 320-share All Ordinaries Index based on closing prices on Tuesday.
Dividends based on rolling 12 months.
Yields are not grossed up for franking credits.
Here are highlights from Polish newspapers this morning.
- According to a poll by the PBS institute, only 48 percent of Poles said they had any savings. Of the rest, only just more than one half said they would invest in financial instruments including bank accounts or in real estate if they came into money.
- Poland's unemployment rate fell in July by 1.7 percent (42,400) to 14.1 percent in July, Labour Minister Andrzej Baczkowski said.
- The government has prepared a proposal for a 300,000 tonne tax-free fuel import quota which will be discussed soon, cabinet spokeswoman Aleksandra Jakubowska said.
- The Dutch Makro Cash and Carry network heads the list of Poland's 50 biggest wholesalers, with 1995 turnover of 450 million zlotys. By the end of next year Makro will operate 17 stores around the country.
- A Poland-China Economic Chamber has been registered in Warsaw to promote trade, financial and technological cooperation between the two countries and to support small and medium sized businesses. In the first half of 1996, trade turnover between China and Poland totalled $283.5 million.
- Tarnobrzeg province's governor will produce a draft this month for a Special Economic Zone to be set up there. The zone is to embrace the Tarnobrzeg, Stalowa Wola and Nowa Deba municipalities, the governor's aide Kazimierz Blasiak said.
- Industrial output in July this year grew by 13.1 percent compared with the same period last year, mostly due to a 16.5 percent growth in processing industries, according to Central Statistical Office (GUS) data.
- Three out of the four banks which will form the new Pekao SA banking group have agreed on the founding concepts, staffing policies and the group's consolidation goals. "We've agreed on the legal framework of our contract", Pekao SA deputy president Andrzej Dorosz said.
- Reve, Germany's major food sector corporation, has bought a controlling stake in Austria's Billa company and gained major influence on operations of the Billa-Polen supermarket chain.
- Food prices in the first 10 days of August were 0.2 percent up compared with the last 10 days in July, according to the GUS office data.
- Around 80 producers of healthy foods and ecological articles will participate in an international fair in Tarnow, southern Poland, on September 5-7 this year.
- The Czech Tatra tram maker will supply five fast trams to the city of Poznan. Another five will be provided by the local Zaklady Cegielskiego plant.
- A new government programme envisages creating huge bonded warehouses to serve agricultural commodity exchanges. Germany firms Bosch and Siemens are likely investors in the "Zachod" warehouse planned in western Poland, Zielona Gora agricultural commodity exchange head Wladyslaw Pawelczyk said.
- The opposition centrist Union for Freedom (UW) will support proposals extending consumers' rights in the government's consumer protection bill, UW deputy Anna Skowronska-Luczynska said.
- Poland's oldest airport, Lawica in Poznan, will be privatised by the end of this year and the new airport company will operate from the start of 1997. Foreign investors have been invited to participate in the privatisation but the treasury will keep a controlling 51 percent stake.
- The Warsaw Stock Exchange (WSE) board has suspended trading in shares of Lodz-based printing firm LDA as its report was submitted late and equal information access to all traders could not be guaranteed, WSE president Wieslaw Rozlucki said.
- Poland's Warta insurance company wants the tax office to pay it 27.6 million zlotys in interest accrued on excess income tax payments in 1990, 1991 and 1992, Warta officials said.
Chrysler Corp. Tuesday announced $380 million in new investments for South America, including assembly plants for pickup trucks and diesel engines in Brazil and the expansion of a Jeep plant now being built in Argentina.
Chrysler, which is cautiously trying to rebuild its international presence, said the projects in Brazil were worth about $315 million, and the expansion in Argentina was worth about $65 million.
Roughly one third of the total investment, or about $126.6 million, will come from Chrysler's suppliers, who will play a major role in the automaker's low-risk global growth strategy, Chrysler Chairman Robert Eaton said.
"We don't intend to make risky investments just to be a major player in emerging markets," added Thomas Gale, Chrysler's executive vice president of international operations. "We're quite content to grow at a steady pace in regions where we see solid opportunities."
Eaton said the investments will boost Chrysler's sales in the Mercosur free-trade zone, which groups Argentina, Brazil, Paraguay and Uruguay.
But the company's limited production capacity will allow it only to grab a small portion of the Mercosur market away from rivals General Motors Corp., Ford Motor Co. and Volkswagen AG, he said.
"We are targeting very specific market segments," he said. "We don't have any interest or desire to offer a vehicle for every possible application."
The new Brazilian plant, which will be Chrysler's third limited-production facility in South America, will assemble the automaker's all-new Dakota compact pickup truck for sale in Argentina, Brazil, Paraguay and Uruguay, the countries in the Mercosur free-trade zone.
In Argentina, Chrysler said it will add production of about 6,000 Jeep Cherokees a year at a plant now under construction in the Cordoba province. The plant is already scheduled to build about 14,000 Jeep Grand Cherokees per year starting next April, and Cherokee output will begin in 1998.
A site for the Brazilian plant will be selected by year-end and vehicles will roll off the assembly line starting in mid-1998, Chrysler said. Production, however, will be modest, with 12,000 trucks in the first year and an ultimate capacity of 40,000 units annually. Employment will start at 400 people.
The trucks at first will be largely assembled from "complete knock-down" kits shipped from the United States, but the automaker intends to meet the Mercosur trade bloc's 60 percent local content requirement after three years.
Chrysler has not decided whether to market the Dakota under the Dodge brand name or under one of its other brands. The automaker now uses the only Jeep and Chrysler brand names outside the United States, Canada and Mexico.
The $315 million Brazil investment also includes a new diesel engine plant to be built by Detroit Diesel Corp..
The $10 million facility will supply the company's Italian-designed VM Motori four-cylinder turbocharged diesel engines for use in the Brazilian Dakota as well as in Jeep models built in Argentina. Chrysler installs about 40,000 of the engines annually into minivans and Jeep Grand Cherokees sold in Europe.
Others suppliers supporting the Chrysler by opening plants in Latin America include Dana Corp., Johnson Controls Inc., Lear Corp., Lear Corp. United Technologies Corp. and PPG Industries Inc., Chrysler executives said.
Eaton said total annual vehicle sales in the four-country Mercosur region will increase from about 2 million units currently to about 2.5 million by the end of the decade.
"We think this is a major growth area," Eaton said. "It's politically and economically a stable region, we think with particularly rising consumer buying power."
Including a small plant in Venezuela that assembles Cherokees and Neon small cars from kits, the investments announced Tuesday bring to $735 million the total financial commitments Chrysler and its suppliers have made in South America, the company said.
Chrysler stock rose 25 cents to close at $28.875 Tuesday on the New York Stock Exchange.
Emerging market countries are once again focusing on the Euromark sector to raise funds after a slow second quarter, new issues traders said this week.
A surge in demand for high-yielding Euromark paper from European retail investors has led to tighter spreads on sovereign paper and recent deals have proved successful, they added. And further transactions are in the pipeline.
"There is still a lot of good retail thirst in Germany for emerging market product, as it offers juicy coupons," a syndicate manager in Frankfurt said.
"Sovereigns also like their paper to be held in retail hands as buyers tend to hold it until full maturity," he added.
Emerging market Euromark issuance swelled at the beginning of 1996, continuing the trend seen in 1995. (See complete list below).
Excessive supply led to a period of saturation in the sector and a lull in volume, but currently renewed demand is now driving issuance, syndicate officials said.
"We are seeing overwhelming demand again for high-yielding mark paper after the lull in the sector given the large volumes early this year...Turkey's recent mark Eurobond had a very good response in the market," one syndicate official in Frankfurt said. But he said there was still some caution with regards to the size and maturity of the issues.
"Shorter maturities are favoured with a maximum of up to about seven years," he added.
But another syndicate official said buyers were not so sensitive to the maturity but were more focussed on the coupon. "German investors can get up to six percent domestically, so they look for higher coupons from emerging market borrowers," the syndicate official said.
Following is a list of emerging market countries that have raised marks in the international bond market since the beginning of 1995 up to the present.
Increased investor confidence and hunger for high coupons have sharply reduced spreads over German government paper in this period.
*Steps-up to 10.875 percent after five years. **Rough guide to current spread at offer over German govt paper.
Sources: Euromoney Bondware data, Euromarket syndicate officials Moody's Investors Service and Standard & Poor's Corp July 1996 Global Ratings Guide and Ratings Handbook respectively.
ARGENTINA, between 500-750 million marks at three to five years. Argentina could increase its May 1999, 7.0 percent bond which was launched via CSFB Effectenbank.
CHILE, COLOMBIA, ECUADOR eyeing opportunities in Euromarks.
VENEZUELA, a 750 million seven-year bond with an expected launch spread between 400 and 500 b.p. over Bunds. Westdeutsche Landesbank has been officially mandated. The bond is expected in early September.
CZECH REPUBLIC and ROMANIA also mooted in marks.
SOUTH AFRICA, up to 500 million at five- or seven- years via Deutsche Morgan Grenfell and Morgan Stanley to refinance 400 million mark 10.50-percent bond that matures in October. Mooted spread +110-150 basis points over Bunds on five years and 150-170 b.p. over on seven years. Expected mid-September after investor roadshows the week of September 9.
Tunisia is set to award a tender on Tuesday to buy 100,000 tonnes of heavy fuel oil containing a maximum of three percent sulphur for delivery between September and January, traders said.
No more details were available.
-- Robertson Stephens & Co said it started coverage of Anadigics Inc as long-term attractive.
U.S. energy futures prices eased as profit-taking hit the overnight ACCESS trading market after a hefty daytime rally.
"There's some profit taking off today's highs," one trader said. Crude ended the day session up 60 cts at $23.26 a barrel.
NYMEX September crude oil, which expires Tuesday, slipped three cents to $23.10 in after-hours trade, with 500 lots changing hands. September heating oil fell 0.08 cent to trade 62.50 cents a gallon on 20 lots traded.
And front-month gasoline dropped modest 0.25 cent a gallon to 65 cents on 70 lots traded.
NOTES: The new gilts are fully fungible with stock already in issue and will be strippable when an official gilts strips facility is introduced. Provision for non-resident tax exemption but, as announced on August 13, dividends will be paid gross of tax to all holders with effect from June 7 1997.
Japan's vice-defence minister arrived in China on Tuesday to resume military talks between the two nations after contact was suspended in 1989, officials said.
Naoaki Murata, the Defence Agency's highest ranking career official, would meet Chinese Defence Minister Chi Haotian on Thursday, a Japanese embassy official said.
Murata would also meet Qian Shugen, deputy chief of the general staff of the People's Liberation Army, on Tuesday and is to visit a tank division on Wednesday, the official said.
"The dignitaries will work to make bilateral understanding much stronger," the official said, without giving details.
Other Japanese officials have said Murata would brief Beijing on the agreement this year between Japan and the United States to step up defence cooperation under their security pact.
Beijing expressed concern about closer Japan-U.S. defence ties after Tokyo and Washington agreed in April to strengthen military cooperation in the Asia-Pacific region.
Japan suspended high-level defence contacts with China after the June 1989 military crackdown on pro-democracy demonstrators in Beijing's Tiananmen Square.
At least seven people have died in several days of fighting between rival Kurdish groups in northern Iraq, Turkey's Anatolian news agency said on Tuesday.
The agency, quoting the Kurdistan Democratic Party (KDP) radio station, said the KDP had killed seven fighters of the rival Patriotic Union of Kurdistan (PUK) on Sunday night near the town of Shaqlawa.
It gave no figures for any KDP casualties.
Clashes between the two groups broke out at the weekend, shattering a U.S.-brokered ceasefire sealed last year.
Iraq's Kurds, protected from possible Iraqi attack by Western air power, broke away from Baghdad after the 1991 Gulf War. Fighting between them began in 1994 and cost around 3,000 lives until the ceasefire.
The two militias, rivals for decades, have accused each other of cooperating with Baghdad or Tehran in the recent fighting.
Pakistani and Iranian officials on Tuesday discussed a multi-billion dollar gas pipeline deal that could be affected by U.S. sanctions against Tehran, an official Pakistani statement said.
The talks between the two sides, led by Iranian Oil Minister Gholamreza Aghazadeh and Pakistani Petroleum and Natural Resources Minister Anwar Saifullah, were held a day after the Iranian delegation arrived in Islamabad.
"The meeting discussed in detail various options available to implement this mega-project in the shortest possible time...," the Pakistani statement said.
It said the meeting also "underscored the need of finalising the details of the project expeditiously so that physical work ...could start without any further loss of time".
The pipeline, estimated to cost between $3.5 billion and $4 billion, is designed to bring Iranian natural gas to Pakistan and then take it to India.
U.S. President Bill Clinton signed a new law early this month to penalise non-U.S. firms that invest $40 million or more a year in the oil and gas sectors of either Iran or Libya.
The Pakistani statement quoted Saifullah as telling Tuesday's meeting that a joint working committee had done "excellent work" with regard to an alternative proposal, but it was not immediately clear if it was designed to beat the U.S. sanctions.
Saifullah said the proposal envisaged the delivery of the Iranian gas at Iran-Pakistan border "under the exclusive arrangements of the Iranian government".
The Pakistani government will be responsible for buying gas "from the point of delivery and make arrangements for its upcountry transmission and sale under its exclusive arrangements", he said.
Aghazadeh said on Monday the U.S. sanctions would not put "the time-tested Pakistan-Iran ties in jeopardy". He added he also planned to discuss a planned project to set up a joint oil refinery in Pakistan.
Pakistan and Iran had earlier decided to invite bids in July for the pipeline project, but have not done so.
Tehran's negotiations to sell gas to Pakistan and India follow a $23 billion deal with its western neighbour Turkey for supplies of Iranian gas up to the year 2020.
The Iran-Pakistan project is expected to construct a 1,600-km (1,000-mile) pipeline to carry 1.6 billion cubic feet a day of Iranian gas to Pakistan's southern province of Sindh and then on to India.
U.S. Senator Alfonse D'Amato, an architect of the Iran-Libya Sanctions Act signed by Clinton on August 5, has warned foreign firms from getting involved in the Iran-Pakistan-India project.
Australia's Broken Hill Pty Co Ltd (BHP) has confirmed that it and several other Western companies had held talks with Tehran on the proposed gas export project but that BHP had not made any commitments.
NOTE - I-O Data Device Inc manufactures PC memory boards.
Acting Indian commissioner in Hong Kong, Dipak Mallik, said he expects a new air services agreement to be signed "any day now" opening up the potential for more flights between the two countries.
But flag carrier Air India said the cuts in capacity it imposed last month between Delhi, Bombay and Hong Kong will remain in force for the forseeable future due to poor demand and increased competition.
Y.D Mathur, Air India's manager for Hong Kong, Philippines, Macau and China told Reuters that load factors for both passenger and cargo have fallen to 60 per cent. Instead of five Boeing 747 flights a week, the carrier has substituted smaller Airbus A310 aircraft on three of the services to Hong Kong. The remaining two 747 services fly onto Osaka in Japan.
"I don't think there will be major changes when the air services agreement is signed. Daily flights by Air India are not likely in the near future. There is plenty of capacity on the route and I have no problem providing seats or cargo space," Mathur said.
Air India's most recent competitor is United Airlines which started a daily Hong Kong to Delhi service last December. Hong Kong's Cathay Pacific Airways Ltd flies to Bombay via Bangkok. India's national carrier also faces competition from other Asian carriers, Thai International Airways Ltd, Singapore Airlines Ltd and Malaysian Airline System Bhd all fly indirect services to India via their main hubs, Mathur said.
Mallik, said a new air services agreement was needed because the existing Indo-UK agreement expires when Hong Kong is handed back to China next year. The Sino-British Joint Liason Group set up to oversee the handover has already approved the new agreement, he added.
"I expect the new agreement to be signed any day now. The Hindi translation is being done now and after the agreement is signed commercial talks between the flag carriers will begin in October, Mallik said.
"The whole purpose of signing this agreement is to continue with the air bridge when Hong Kong becomes part of China so obviously there is potential of increased flights otherwise why would we sign the agreement. How the expectation turns out I cannot predict," he added.
Shanghai B shares ended up in slow trading on Tuesday on bargain-hunting, with investors focussing on interim results, brokers said.
"The anxiety over interim results prevents investors from actively building positions," one broker said. "But the index will rise after all the results are published."
Shanghai Erfangji was the star, rising $0.006 or 5.88 percent to $0.108, on volume of 124,000 shares.
Heilongjiang Electric Power traded the most on institutional buying, up $0.010 or 2.80 percent to $0.366, on volume of 1.6 million shares.
But further losses will be limited by improved fundamentals such as falling inflation and an expected cut in bank interest rates, brokers said.
The A share index closed down 14.167 points or 1.62 percent to 860.453 points, on volume of 250.1 million shares worth 2.1 billion yuan.
The SSE 30 index fell 52.196 points or 2.38 percent to 2139.740 points.
China Jialing Industry performed the worst after posting lower-than-expected interim results, plunging 1.68 yuan or 14.55 percent to 10.27 yuan, on volume of 3.5 million shares.
Singapore bunkers on Tuesday were pushed higher by strong cargo levels causing buyers to cover their requirements outside Singapore, traders said.
Both independents and majors were asking $111 for 180 cst and $106-$107 for 380 cst, around $1-$2 above Monday's quotes. But prices have increased over $8 from last week, traders said. A shipowner said he would cover his requirements in Colombo and in Ulsan, South Korea as Singapore prices were too high. A seller said the high prices are causing market jitters. He said such high prices, riding on the strength of cargo levels are scaring away buyers. -- Singapore Newsroom (+65 870 3082).
Israel said on Tuesday it did not want a confrontation with arch foe Syria a day after Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu warned problems in Lebanon would be bad for Damascus.
"There is no intention to heat up the border with Syria," an Israeli government source who spoke on condition he not be named told Reuters.
The remarks also followed an Israeli Channel Two television report on Monday that Syria had tested a long-range Scud missile able to hit Israeli cities.
Israeli Foreign Minister David Levy said that missile tests were no way to signal a desire for peace.
"If Syria wants peace, the tone and style is not with missiles or weapons like that," Levy told reporters.
"Israel wants and its strategy is to reach peace. It has passed messages in that direction. We expect that Syria will prove its intention for peace by answering the Israeli message and we will be able to sit and talk peace."
Syria meanwhile accused Israel through its official media of beating the drums of war by reneging on peace commitments, "escalating tension and waving flagrant threats against Lebanon and Syria."
Zeev Maoz, the head of Israel's Jaffee Centre for Strategic Studies -- the country's best known think-tank -- said on Sunday the probability of war with Syria had increased with Netanyahu's election. Maoz said Netanyahu's position could push Damascus to try to break a diplomatic stalemate by starting a war.
Israeli Channel Two television, which gave no source for the Syria missile test report, said the Scud-C was tested several weeks ago. An Israeli army spokeswoman said she had no knowledge about any Syrian missile tests.
A former commander of Israel's air force, Avihu Bin Nun, told Israel's army radio such missile tests were routine. He said Israel was doing part of Syria's work for it by "making a big deal" over missiles it knew Damascus possessed.
He added Israel still had the deterrent advantage.
"They (Syrians) know we can bother them 100 times for every such launch," Bin Nun said.
On Monday, during his first visit to Israeli-occupied south Lebanon since his May election victory, Netanyahu warned that pro-Iranian Hizbollah guerrilla group raids on Israeli forces there would only worsen the conflict.
"It is not good for Syria, Lebanon or Hizbollah or Israel. Therefore our choice is to try to reach a calming of the situation and guaranteeing security for all," Netanyahu said.
Israel says Syria, the main power broker in Lebanon where it has 35,000 troops, could curb Hizbollah guerrillas fighting to oust Israel from a 15 km (nine mile) deep south Lebanon buffer strip the Jewish state has held since 1982.
Lebanon and Syria have both publicly rejected Netanyahu's "Lebanon First" proposal -- by which Israel would withdraw from south Lebanon for the right security guarantees -- as a ploy to avoid handing the strategic Golan Heights back to Damascus.
Israel captured the Golan Heights in the 1967 Middle East war. Netanyahu says he will not relinquish the plateau. Israel's previous government said it was ready to make concessions on the Golan for full peace with Syria.
A group led by New York investment manager Mario Gabelli said Tuesday it cut its stake in Triad Systems Corp to 1,184,700 common shares or 6.7 percent from 8 percent previously.
In a filing with the Securities and Exchange Commission, the group said its latest transactions include net sales of 169,000 common shares sold between June 19 and August 19 at prices ranging from $5.1250 and $6.1250 per share.
Citizens Utilities Co said its board of directors set a 1.6 percent third-quarter stock dividend on the company's outstanding Series A and Series B common stock.
The stock dividend is payable September 30 to shareholders of record on September 3, Citizens Utilities said.
The company said the stock dividend has a cash equivalent of 18-5/8 cents.
Citizens Utilities said the stock dividend rates for the first three quarters of 1996 totalled 4.8 percent, compared with 4.6 percent for the 1995 corresponding period.
Denmark on Tuesday confirmed General Christian Hvidt as new armed forces chief to replace Admiral Hans Joergen Garde, who died in a plane crash on the Faroe Islands in early August, the defence ministry said.
Hvidt, 54, had been second-in-command to Garde since April 1, 1996. His appointment as new armed forces chief also brought promotion from lieutenant-general to general, the ministry statement said.
Garde, 57, was among nine people killed when a Royal Danish Airforce Gulfstream III crashed on approach to Vagar Airport on the windswept North Atlantic Faroe Islands on August 3.
The plane, which was carrying a military delegation on an official visit, hit a cliffside in poor visibility. The other victims were four crew, Garde's wife and three senior officers.
The cause of the crash has not been determined yet but eye witnesses saw the aircraft hit a pocket of turbulence, twist upside down and fly into the cliff face near the airport.
Denmark has been a member of NATO (North Atlantic Treaty Organisation) since 1948.
The National Bank of Poland fixed the zloty at 2.7395 against the dollar, down from 2.7385 yesterday and at 1.8375 against the mark, up from 1.8380, the NBP said.
Chip producer Austria Mikro Systeme International AG said on Tuesday it expects parent sales and earnings in the second half of 1996 to be on a par with those posted in the first six months.
The Sri Lanka rupee closed slightly stronger at 55.75 to the dollar after opening at 55.78, which was the same as its previous closing level, dealers said.
The Central Bank pushed up the dollar by 0.75 local cents in the morning, and fixed buying and selling prices at 55.3336 and 56.4514.
"The dollar moved in a narrow range due to a lack of genuine demand," said an ANZ Grindlays dealer.
Overnight call money closed at 13 percent with the market very liquid, they said.
Scandinavian Airlines System (SAS) on Tuesday reported first half 1996 pre-tax profits up on the same period last year, but said the full-year result could be slightly weaker than 1995.
An average of analysts' forecasts had predicted a 1996 first half result of 1.085 billion Swedish crowns.
An SAS statement said that increased competion between the Scandinavian capitals of Copenhagen, Oslo and Stockholm made forecasting conditions for the second half difficult.
"The market outlook for the second half of the year is hard to judge because of expected competition from new actors between the three capitals and on some other European routes," it said.
German utility group Viag AG is certain to pay a dividend on 1996 earnings, its management board chairman Georg Obermeier told a news conference on Tuesday evening.
Obermeier said it was "certainly conceivable" that the group would maintain its 1995 dividend level of 12 marks and that a higher payout was possible.
Obermeier also said the company had no plans for a capital increase in the next five years.
Interest rate sensitive stocks saw plenty of activity on Monday as market bought up ahead of a Federal budget expected to be good for financial markets.
Nickel producer due to report its full year results.
Previous full year net profit was A$107.19 million.
On Monday, insurance group reported an eight percent higher interim net profit of A$30.23 million and declared its maiden interim dividend. Company also forecast a higher profit for the calendar 1996 year.
On Monday, hotel group reported a 76.3 percent higher interim net profit of A$18.0 million. Company is about 22.86 percent owned by French hotel group Accor SA.
Concern about U.S. exports of rice to Mexico and reports of excellent crop yields in early harvesting of the U.S. rice crop pressed CBOT rice futures to a lower close, traders said.
There was news Mexico may lift a ban on imports of Asian rice. "A lifting of the ban would be bearish," a trader said, referring to the potential cut in imports of U.S. rice should the ban be lifted.
Rice futures volume was estimated at 400 contracts, down from 661 Monday. Rice options volume was estimated at 50 contracts, up from 32 Monday.
Rice futures closed 6-1/2 to 10 cents per cwt lower, with September down 6-1/2 at $10.09-1/2 per cwt.
J.J.B. Hilliard, W.L. Lyons, Inc said it won $1.115 million of Bowling Green Municipal Projects Corp., Ky., lease revenue bonds, 1996 Series B, with a net inter est cost of 4.7568 percent.
In a statement, Pemex said in the first half of the year investment totaled 5.504 billion pesos in the fields of exploration and output and was as budgeted.
Pemex said that of the total annual investment planned 5.252 billion pesos was designated to projects to develop new fields, 3.866 billion to maintenance programs for wells and installations and 1.74 billion pesos in exploration and 1.94 billion pesos in the construction and repairing of pipelines.
In the first half of the year, Pemex said one of the highlights was the operation of 37 well drilling units, six more than in the same period a year ago.
Of these drilling units, 29 have concentrated on developing existing fields and eight have looked at exploring new wells, Pemex said.
The company said it drilled 53 wells in the first six months of the year, 14 more than in the first half of 1995. It gave no details of success rates.
--Chris Aspin, Mexico City newsroom (525) 7289530.
PT Indonesian Satellite Corporation (Indosat) closed at 30-3/4 in New York on Tuesday. It recorded the day's low of 30-1/2 and the day's high of 30-7/8.
Volume was 63,200 American Depository Shares. Block volume was 45,000. Its previous close on Monday was 30-1/4.
One ADS represents 10 common shares.
-- Jakarta newsroom (Tel: 6221-3846364).
The average yield on 91-day Treasury bills in the Baltic state of Lithuania fell further at auction on Tuesday and demand remained high, the central bank said.
Amounts are in millions of litas unless otherwise stated.
Settlement date for today's auction is August 23 and the bills mature on November 22.
A "tired but apparently unharmed" Japanese electronics executive was freed by kidnappers on Monday after they received $2 million in unmarked $100 bills, government officials said.
After nine days in captivity, Mamoru Konno, president of a U.S. subsidiary of Japan's Sanyo Electric Co., was found in the basement of an unoccupied building in this northern Mexican city just before 4 a.m. local time.
Jose Luis Anaya Bautista, State Attorney General of Baja California, told a news conference the end of the abduction was a two-day ordeal in which the ransom was handed over with no apparent guarantee Konno would be released.
He said on Saturday night an officer of Mexico's State Judicial Police drove a Sanyo company vehicle to the La Jolla section of Tijuana where he met two of the alleged kidnappers and handed over an envelope containing $2 million in unmarked $100 bills.
At 10 p.m. on Monday night authorities received a call from the kidnappers directing them to an area in the La Mesa district of Tijuana where they found Konno "tired but apparently unharmed" in the basement of a disused building, he said.
Anaya said police were looking for six suspects, all believed to be Mexican nationals.
"I was pleased to be able to talk to Mr. Konno and to tell him how happy we are to have him back with us safe and sound," Anaya said. "He was very grateful to us for having helped him."
Konno was seized on Aug. 10 as he was travelling home to San Diego from a company party and baseball game in Tijuana.
He was the first high-ranking foreign executive kidnapped in Mexico in recent years and his abduction fuelled fears that criminals may target some of the thousands of foreign executives who work in factories along the Mexican-U.S. border.
Sanyo North America President Moto Haru Iue said: "I express my sincere appreciation for all who helped bring about (Konno's) safe return. Mr. Konno is in good health and relieved it's over."
But underscoring some of the doubts that have emerged since the kidnapping about the safety of working in Mexico, he said he did not know if Konno would return to work at the Tijuana plant. "We will have to consider security first," he said.
Kidnappings are on the rise in Mexico, fuelled partly by the December 1994 peso crisis and the subsequent deep recession, which threw more than a million people out of work. Experts say amateur and professional criminal gangs, former and current policemen and leftist rebels of the self-styled Popular Revolutionary Army are among the main suspects.
Konno's release will remove a cloud over the visit to Mexico, set to begin on Tuesday, by Japanese Prime Minister Ryutaro Hashimoto. Hashimoto will visit three other countries during a 10-day tour of Latin America.
During the ordeal, Mexican police in Baja California had said they were not involved in any efforts to free Konno, saying they had been officially notified by Sanyo of his abduction.
NOTE - Sanyo Coca-Cola Bottling Co Ltd is a Coca-Cola bottler operating in western Japan.
Russia intends to shift support of the agricultural industry from the federal to the regional level, but a top agricultural official said on Tuesday that 1997 federal farm supports could be higher than ever.
"The Agriculture Ministry has officially asked for about 36 trillion roubles for support of the agricultural sector next year (1997)," Deputy Prime Minister Alexander Zaveryukha told a news conference.
But he said the finance ministry was offering 26 trillion in ministerial negotiations.
The 1996 budget earmarked 13.17 trillion roubles for the farm sector in subsidies and grants in February of this year.
Zaveryukha, in charge of Russia's harvest, said federal cash grants alone, of 7.2 trillion roubles, were half regional grants of 14 trillion in 1996.
"We have shifted support of agriculture to the regions," he said. But he said federal grants and credits together were close to regional levels.
But he added that 36 trillion roubles was the bare minimum for 1997 federal support.
"It is the minimal amount that will allow support of the leasing, fertiliser and credit funds," he said.
Annual inflation in Russia this year is expected to be between 25 and 35 percent.
Zaveryukha also said the federal government was rushing 100 billion roubles worth of spare parts and combine harvesters to Siberia, the last major region to harvest its wheat and a key to Russian grain independence.
The government forecasts the grain harvest this year will be 77 million tonne harvest, well up on last year's drought-hit 63.4 million tonnes. Some independent estimates say a harvest of 72 million tonnes is more likely.
Zaveryukha said Russia would be able to meet its grain needs and would both import and export about 4-5 million tonnes.
Taiwan's central bank on Tuesday injected T$8.665 billion worth of funds into the banking system through open market operations, a central bank official said.
The bank, through three bills finance companies, bought T$8.665 billion in approved securities instruments offered by financial institutions with a single yield at 5.25 percent, the official said.
The institutions have the option of repurchasing the instruments between six and 13 days from now, the official said.
The United States on Tuesday condemned a threat by a Russian general to use aircraft and heavy artillery to drive separatist forces from the Chechen capital Grozny, and said force could not solve the problem.
"We are concerned by General (Konstantin) Pulikovsky's threat ... to use massive force in Grozny," State Department spokesman Glyn Davies told reporters.
"It should be clear to the parties involved that after 20 months of conflict the dispute there cannot be resolved by use of force. There has to be an element of negotiation."
Civilians were reported flooding out of Grozny on Tuesday following what Davies called the "frightening threats" by Pulikovsky, Russia's acting commander in Chechnya.
Davies said Washington was "sending the same message privately that we're sending publicly" to the Russians.
"The bottom line is that we urge both of the parties to avoid any actions that will lead to a resumption of full-scale fighting and endanger the fragile dialogue that was begun last week," he said.
Russian national security chief Alexander Lebed and rebel leaders agreed last week to arrange a truce to allow peace negotiations to resume.
But Pulikovsky, who signed the ceasefire order on Saturday, accused the guerrillas of using the truce to dig in in the regional capital, much of which they seized two weeks ago.
A century after live ostriches were first brought to Australia for the millinery trade, a new industry is tempting the Asian market with ostrich sashimi, ostrich stir fry and ostrich steak.
Like camels and water buffalo, Australia's ostriches began to run wild after demand for their services -- in this case, for feathers for hats --- was killed by changing fashion.
Now they have been rounded up, new birds have been imported and a breeding programme has increased the number of Australian ostriches to about 60,000 from 45,000 a year ago.
First exports of Australian ostrich meat have begun to Singapore, Japan and Hong Kong in 500 kg (1,100-lb) shipments.
Exports also have also been made to the United States and strong inquiries are being received from Europe, says Chas Dale, general manager of Australian Ostrich Co Ltd (AOC).
Dale says he can only guess at how big ostrich meat exports might become. But in aiming for a niche in Asia's food trade, prospects for ostrich farming are bigger than ever.
"Its potential is on a giant scale," Gary Allen, chairman of AOC, told Reuters.
The AOC started regularly processing ostriches only in July and the company believes it will take a couple of years before the Australian industry completes the transition from breeding to commercial operation.
The commercial stage will be reached when the industry has about 30,000 breeding hens, compared with less than 10,000 breeders at present, Dale said.
About 4,000 Australians now have some form of investment in the industry, the membership of the Australian Ostrich Association has grown to about 2,700 members, and an Ostrich Odyssey '96 convention in Adelaide featured what AOC describes as "a far sighted, ambitious agribusiness plan".
The main focus is on ostrich meat, but the industry is also aiming to provide premium leathers, oils and by-products.
Where is ostrich meat's market edge when AOC sells at A$35.00 a kg, more than double the price of a prime beef steak?
And why would Asia go for Australian ostrich meat rather than the South African original?
Dale admits ostrich meat is not cheap, describing it as near the top of the restaurant price scale.
But there is increasing recognition of health value, with ostrich meat at only 0.5 percent fat, he said.
Furthermore, tenderness made ostrich sashimi "absolutely beautiful," while Singapore was delighted with a stir fry ostrich combination, he said.
So far Australian ostrich meat exports are mainly for traditional Western steak-type meals. But AOC is working with Asian tasters to find out what this huge market wants.
AOC's target is exports of about 100 tonnes of ostrich meat over the next 12 months.
Australian ostrich producers believe they will establish leadership in Asia by focusing on the region and meeting its unique culinary tastes, not simply supplying bulk meat.
The native South African ostrich is very different from Australia's big bird, the emu, which is mainly farmed for its body oil.
Ostrich meat is not as gamey as emu, ostriches have two toes, emus three, and ostriches are about three times bigger.
Prices on the New York Stock Exchange closed mostly higher in moderate trading Tuesday.
The Dow Jones Industrial Average rose 21.82 to 5721.26.
The NYSE composite fell 0.03 to 356.61.
The average price per share was unchanged.
Gainers beat losers 1230 to 1068.
Volume was 334,948,330, compared with 293,930,290 Monday.
Burundi's new Tutsi military strongman is opposed to any expulsions of Rwandan Hutu refugees from northern Burundi and has sent a team to investigate the reasons behind their movement, his spokesman said on Tuesday.
Boyoya's spokesman Jean-Luc Ndizeye told Reuters by telephone that the new president of Burundi remained committed to international conventions on the protection of refugees.
"The president expects refugees to stay where they are. He does not expect any movements at all today," Ndizeye said.
U.N. officials expect thousands of refugees on Tuesday to leave northern Burundi and return to Rwanda. They say they fear for their security following an army coup in Burundi on July 25.
Shortly after the coup by the Tutsi-dominated army, Buyoya ordered an end to forced expulsions of Rwandan Hutu refugees.
Ndizeye said movements by thousands of refugees from the north since Sunday were not part of official policy and any one found guilty of inciting them would be punished. "The president is not going back on his word to protect refugees," he said.
The exodus of Rwandan refugees back to Rwanda picked up after troops killed three refugees at Magara camp. Refugees accused the army of killing them as part of a campaign of intimidation.
Lieutenant-Colonel Jean Minani, a Burundian army spokesman, confirmed on Tuesday troops killed the three but said they fired only after one refugee pulled out a revolver and shot at them.
Cambodian armed forces chief General Ke Kim Yan held peace talks in Thailand with the breakaway Khmer Rouge faction, a top official said on Tuesday.
"The meeting went well and we only have some technical problems about how to (physically) reach each others' bases," co-Defence Minister Tea Banh told reporters outside parliament, adding that they were in radio contact.
He did not give any more details on the talks but said the government forces were just five km (three miles) from the guerrilla positions in some areas around Pailin but had problems linking up.
The government has also been holding talks inside Cambodia with guerrillas loyal to former top Khmer Rouge leader Ieng Sary from the base of Phnom Malai, north of Pailin.
Ieng Sary and his followers, including the commanders of substantial forces at Phnom Malai and Pailin, have publicly split with hardline Khmer Rouge rulers and said they want to stop fighting and work for national reconciliation.
The government has agreed to a ceasefire and to let the rebels remain in their zones but has balked at allowing Ieng Sary run for a new party in general elections slated for 1998.
Ieng Sary was foreign minister and deputy premier in the 1975-79 Khmer Rouge regime of his former brother-in-law Pol Pot. Both men were in 1979 sentenced to death in absentia for overseeing the death of more than one million people.
Tea Banh said there had been clashes between the rival Khmer Rouge groups near Phnom Malai, a forest-clad mountain area on the border with Thailand, but the government had not intervened as the dissidents felt strong enough to beat off any threat.
Khmer Rouge radio, which remains loyal to hardliners led by Pol Pot, claimed on Tuesday that "the traitors in Malai" had asked the government's 12th Division to help put down dissent from Khmer Rouge rank and file in the area.
"The traitors have a lot of money and they can leave the bases easily but the people cannot leave, so the people are furious with them and have started planning to kill the traitors," it reported.
The Ieng Sary commanders, in a statement read out on state radio on Tuesday, denied Khmer Rouge claims there had been demonstrations in their bases. They said Pol Pot had publicly said violence should be avoided while sending small groups to fight the dissidents.
State radio said people had decided to cut off all radio and phone contacts with hardliners and called on all Khmer Rouge fighters to avoid fighting each other.
Tropical Storm Dolly reached hurricane strength just before reaching land on Mexico's Yucatan peninsula on Tuesday, forecasters at the National Hurricane Centre said.
At noon EDT (1600 GMT), the centre of Hurricane Dolly was located at latitude 19.3 north, longitude 87.6 west, on the Yucatan coast near Punta Herrero, the hurricane centre said.
The storm, packing minimal hurricane winds of 75 mph (120 kph), was moving to the west-northwest at 13 mph (21 kph).
It was expected to weaken slightly as it passed over the Yucatan peninsula, but forecasters said there was a good chance of strengthening once the storm moved over the warm waters of the Gulf of Mexico.
Dolly was expected to approach the Texas-Mexico border on Thursday.
A hurricane warning was in effect for the east coast of the Yucatan peninsula and parts of the Belize coast were under a tropical storm watch.
Turkish shares rose by 1.52 percent on Tuesday amid reaction buys which also caused turnover to increase, brokers said.
"Today's upward movement was mainly a reaction to the recent falls and I don't think it will last long. Tomorrow I expect the market to start with a rise but profit sales will come. I think the market will end the week at these levels," said Fahri Arabacioglu from Kentbank.
The IMKB-100 gained 1.52 percent or 947.77 points to end at 63,369.69. Daily volume rose to 5.09 trillion lira from Monday's 4.7 trillion.
Brokers said they expected horizontal and selective trade within 62,000-64,000 this week in limited cash entry as expectations had ended after firms' half-year profits had been announced.
But next week the index could spur higher if expectations on unaudited third quarter company results started.
The index shed 4.16 percent last week, after 2.1 percent a week earlier.
The market has been in a sharp downtrend since its record high of 73,531.3 on July 8, diving 15.04 percent since then.
The session's most active shares were those of the textile firm Akin Tekstil which gained 1,300 lira to end at 9,200. Shares of utility Aktas Elektrik also rose by 20,000 lira to 450,000.
The 85-share industrial index rose by 1.25 percent to 70,326.27 and the 15-share financial index jumped by 2.23 percent to 54,456.90.
Of the 219 shares traded, gainers outdid losers by 140 to 37 and 42 shares were stable.
Key September 10-year Japanese government bond (JGB) futures closed slightly easier on Tuesday after three straight days of gains.
Earlier, the key contract hit an eight-month high on investors' cash bond buying. But afternoon trade was sluggish with all eyes fixed on the FOMC meeting later today and Wednesday's 10-year JGB auction, traders said.
"I'd like to see how banks place bids in tomorrow's auction, as well," the dealer said.
The September briefly fell to 120.59 in the early morning on profit-taking in cash bonds from regional investors.
But the early fall provided a good chance for other investors, including life insurers, to buy long-term cash bonds, traders said. This resulted in a late morning rally as high as 120.95, the highest intraday level for any key contract since December 22.
It stood at 3.130 percent at 0721 GMT, up 0.020 from Monday's close.
The morning rally in JGBs was also supported by falls in long-term money rates due to receding fears of an imminent credit tightening, traders said. Key three-month certificates of deposit (CDs) were issued at 0.60 percent, the lowest issued rate since June 26, down from 0.63 percent on Monday.
Another factor behind the recent firmness was technical short-covering in JGB futures ahead of a shift in benchmark status to December as early as on Wednesday, traders said.
Turnover of the December futures was 24,421 contracts, close to that of key September's 45,580.
Light hedging sales were detected in cash bonds and futures due to fears of limited demand for the 10-year JGBs to be auctioned on Wednesday, traders said. The offer volume seem unchanged from the previous issue of one trillion yen. But the coupon rate is likely to be 3.1 percent, at the low end of recent coupons ranging from 3.1 to 3.3 percent, they said.
The U.S. Transportation Department on Tuesday had no comment on a Financial Times story saying Britain was taking a tough stand in its talks on a new aviation accord with the United States.
The paper, reporting the British posture in the ongoing talks on new accord, added that Britain was not ready to sign an "open skies" agreement with the United States similar to the free market pact it had signed with Germany.
Asked about the story, Transportation Department spokesman William Mosley said: "We are aware of the story and decline comment on it."
Hundreds of Liberian refugees evicted from the U.S. embassy housing compound have been taken to new shelters outside Monrovia, aid workers said on Tuesday.
They were among up to 20,000 people who took refuge at the Graystone compound, close to the embassy in the city's Mamba Point district, at the height of fighting between rival factions in the city in April and May.
Embassy security guards tore down their makeshift shelters on Monday after the expiry of a deadline for them to leave. The refugees gathered outside the gate with their belongings, demanding help with resettlement.
"Ten family heads were relocated yesterday but the rest of them slept right here in these garages and abandoned offices last night. Now they are going to regular camps," said a spokesman for British charity Tear Fund.
The U.S. embassy says Monrovia is now returning to normal and it wants to give its staff their houses back.
The compound was protected from the fighting by a high wall and by security guards. An impromptu market for looted goods sprang up inside and Liberian aid workers set up a clinic treating bullet wounds, diarrhoea and other ailments.
West African leaders and Liberian warlords agreed a new peace plan in the Nigerian capital on Saturday, detailing a timetable for disarming militias and setting a target date of May 30 for elections.
Rating Announcement As of 08/19/96.
Issuer		: Sevier Co. Pub. Bldg. Auth. Local govt.
			  pub. imp.
A Russian banking group which already controls a majority stake in oil company  AO Sidanko is likely to emerge as the winner in a new investment tender for 34 percent of the company, analysts said.
The price for the 79.02 million state-owned shares is 110 billion roubles and, according to the Federal Property Fund's Reforma bulletin, the winner must also invest at least 325.1 billion roubles in Sidanko.
The winner must also hand over to Sidanko a 13 percent stake in Sidanko's main production unit AO Chernogorneft. More than one bid must be lodged to make the tender valid.
Sidanko said in February that MFK and Moskovskie Partnyory (ICFI Moscow Partners), part of the financial group around the commercial bank Uneximbank (Oneksimbank in Russian), had acquired some 15 percent of Chernogorneft.
A Uneximbank spokeswoman said on Tuesday that the two companies hold some 13 percent of Chernogorneft. It was too early to say whether the group would bid for the Sidanko stake.
However, analysts said it seemed likely the Uneximbank group, in some form, would win the tender.
"There is a strong presumption that Uneximbank would be the front runner here," said Stephen O'Sullivan, oil and gas analyst at MC Securities, adding this would be no bad thing.
MFK won a tender for 51 percent of Sidanko under the government's shares-for-loans scheme last December, in exchange for a $130 million loan to the government. It can sell after September 1 but market expectations are that it will not.
"Generally, Uneximbank has been a force for good at Sidanko," O'Sullivan added.
Sidanko already holds 37.7 percent of the voting shares of Chernogorneft and a further 13 percent would raise its holding to 50.7 percent. All Chernogorneft shares are voting stock.
"This is one of the conditions to make the company more manageable," a Sidanko spokesman said.
Salomon Brothers oil and gas analyst Igor Falaleyev said he thought "Uneximbank-related structures" would win the tender, to be held on September 12.
Uneximbank, Russia's fourth-biggest bank by assets, has extensive industrial holdings. It won a shares-for-loans tender for 38 percent of Norilsk Nickel.
Uneximbank president Vladimir Potanin was last week appointed First Deputy Prime Minister in charge of the economy.
"Uneximbank is trying to integrate the businesses of Sidanko, trying to create a vertically-integrated company similar to LUKoil, realising substantial cost-savings," Falaleyev said.
He said Sidanko's current ownership meant there was little point in anyone else bidding for the 34 percent. "It doesn't give you control. Uneximbank is still going to run the show."
A number of foreign investors together own some 13-15 percent of Chernogorneft, analysts said.
Falaleyev said the government would gain much-needed revenue from the sale, Sidanko would strengthen its hold over Chernogorneft. Uneximbank would increase control over Sidanko.
Sidanko also has 38 percent stakes, equivalent to 50.7 percent of the voting capital in its other key production units AO Varyoganneftegaz  VJGZ.RTS, AO Kondpetroleum  COND.RTS, AO Udmurtneft and AO Saratovneftegaz.
Sidanko, with joint ventures, produced 27 million tonnes of crude last year, eight percent of Russia's total.
The state is planning to sell 34 percent of five major oil companies this year. They are Sidanko, Sibneft, Vostochnaya, Onako and Norsi-oil.
British charities on Tuesday condemned the growth of child prostitution worldwide and called for tougher measures against sex offenders who abuse young people.
Reports by the charities Barnardo's and Save the Children were published as concern over the sexual abuse of children was heightened by a major police investigation in Belgium into a sex scandal in which two young girls have been killed.
Barnardo's, which offers shelter and care to children in Britain, found a girl of 12 working as a prostitute in Bradford, northern England, and heard about others who had started to offer sex when they were nine or 10 years of age.
It acknowledged that it would be hard to end such systematic abuse, but said: "As a first step, Barnardo's believe that existing legislation should be tightened up."
A man found guilty in Britain of having sex with a minor under 13 faces life imprisonment, but the maximum sentence for having sex with a girl aged between 13 and 16 is just two years.
"Attitudes must change to recognise that young women and girls on the streets are victims of abuse, and not prostitutes. Until this is achieved, no progress will be made," it said.
Separately, Save the Children published an international report on child prostitution, entitled "Kids for Hire".
"Throughout Asia, Africa, Latin America and the countries of the North, there has been a growth in the number of under-age girls and boys involved in commercial sex work," Save the Children said in a report entitled "Kids for Hire".
Both reports will be discussed at the first World Congress against the Commercial Sexual Exploitation of Children which takes place in Stockholm from August 27 to 31.
A spokeswoman for Save the Children said it was impossible to say accurately how many children were engaged in prostitution because of the illegal and hidden nature of the trade, but evidence from field workers showed it was getting worse.
The report said it was "a major international scandal" that every year thousands of children were sold, abducted or tricked into forced prostitution in countries other than their own.
For example, it was estimated that at least 100,000 Nepalese girls were working as prostitutes in India at any one time.
The main cause of child prostitution was poverty with children selling themselves to support their families, it added.
Sex tourism by people from rich countries was adding to the problem, it said, and men were looking for younger girls because they thought children were less likely to be tainted by AIDS.
The charity called on governments to implement laws allowing sex tourists to be prosecuted when they return home.
Barnardo's cited a UN convention calling on member states to "protect the child from all forms of sexual exploitation and abuse", but said it was a complex issue.
Barnardo's official Sara Swann noted that most of the young Bradford girls had been put out to work by "boyfriends" whom they adored, despite being beaten and humiliated by them.
"You can't force protection on a 14-year-old girl who says she's in love," she said.
Div registration date  Nov 19 NOTE - Irish-based food company Kerry Group Plc said that net debt amounted to 372 million Irish pounds at June 30, 1996 and shareholders funds, including deferred income, were 345 million.
Huntsman Corp. on Tuesday dropped its $460 million bid for Rexene Corp. after being spurned twice by the Dallas-based chemical firm.
Huntsman, which is the largest privately held chemical company in the country, also said it would not pursue a hostile tender offer for Rexene -- a move that had been anticipated by some Wall Street takeover traders.
"I'm washing my hands of the entire matter. Huntsman Corp. is not interested in pursuing further negotiations nor in commencing an unsolicited tender offer at this time. It is simply not worth the aggravation," said Jon Huntsman, chief executive officer and chairman of the family-owned company based in Salt Lake City.
Huntsman said the decision came after Rexene financial adviser Schroder-Wertheim indicated the Rexene board would reject bids substantially above its $15 per share offer.
Huntsman's first bid of $14 per share was rejected by Rexene on July 22. It then sweetened the offer to $15 per share on Aug. 1, but Rexene rejected that bid as well.
The unsolicited bid also included the assumption of $175 million of debt.
Rexene did not have any immediate comment on Huntsman's decision.
But Rexene's stock, which had risen sharply from about $9 per share after Huntsman first launched its bid, tumbled $2 to $10.50 in after-hours trading on news Huntsman was dropping the offer. Huntsman made its announcement after the market closed.
Huntsman blasted Rexene's rejection of its offer and warned that the cyclical chemical industry is already seeing a decline in margins and prices. In spurning the offer, Rexene said shareholder value would be boosted by its strategic investment plan, which includes additional capacity and the expansion of product offerings.
"In my opinion, Rexene's shareholders won't see our offering in the value of Rexene stock for years to come. The shareholders should be very disappointed," Huntsman said.
The move marks the second time in recent months that Huntsman, long known for successful acquisitions, failed to win a target company.
Huntsman launched a bid for Sterling Chemicals Inc. in April, but the effort failed when the target instead opted for a management and investor buyout.
In 1994, Huntsman doubled its size when it acquired Texaco Inc.'s chemical business for $850 million.
Analysts said they saw the surge in Nigeria's month-on-month inflation to 5.5 percent in May from 1.3 percent in April as a temporary phenomenon.
The Federal Office of Statistics (FOS), which announced the data on Tuesday, attributed the surge largely to big increases in the cost of food, personal household items and educational materials.
Despite the jump in the month-on-month rate, year-on-year inflation slipped to 31.0 percent from 31.8 percent.
Explaining the month-on-month surge, one Lagos-based analyst said: "(Petroleum Trust Fund) money was in circulation in the banks in May driving up demand for foreign exchange. On top of that smugglers found ways around new ports procedures introduced in April and had to factor in the extra costs."
The government's Petroleum Trust Fund (PTF) was set up in 1994 to cushion the blow of the domestic fuel price hike.
Another analyst said: "The May figures are just a blip. When we see June and July figures inflation should be right down again.
The slight strengthening of the naira against foreign currencies will help to reduce inflation in the import-dependent economy. The naira has dropped to 80 naira to the dollar at weekly central bank foreign exchange auctions from 85 naira earlier in the year.
"It's what manuafacturers had been hoping for, but demand is still not increasing and if it does then so will wage claims and quite possibly inflation too," said one banker.
The battle against inflation in sub-Saharan Africa's largest economy is the key point of tight fiscal policy set out by military ruler General Sani Abacha.
Inflation figures tend to be late and disputed by independent analysts, but there is a consensus that Nigeria has left behind the rampant inflation triggered by a four-fold increase in petrol prices in October 1994.
The bashing that Malaysia's state electricity company Tenaga Nasional has taken after a nationwide blackout earlier this month could affect its finances, Tenaga Chairman Ani Arope said on Tuesday.
The government-owned news agency Bernama quoted Ani as saying in an interview that the criticism of Tenaga had caused the image of the company to plunge "to the minus zero level" both nationally and internationally.
"I hope that the powers that be and all those involved in the healthy development of the power industry would look to the finances of Tenaga and see to it that Tenaga does not become bankrupt," he told Bernama.
"If Tenaga were to go under financially, I think it's going to create another big national financial blackout," said Dr Ani who is due to retire at the end of this month after six years at the Tenaga helm.
The 12-15-hour August 3 blackout over peninsula Malaysia -- the second in four years -- indirectly caused the deaths of four children when the candles they were using burned down their house. It trapped people in lifts, delayed flights, stopped trains, and cost industry some $50 million in lost output.
Ani said industries that depend on Tenaga, especially the Independent Power Producers (IPPs), could only survive if Tenaga was healthy.
Ani, who will be succeeded by Standards and Industrial Research Institute of Malaysia Director-General Ahmad Tajuddin Ali on September 2, said if Tenaga defaulted on one payment to the industry, it would create a financial domino effect that would be "real bad".
Malaysia allowed the private sector into Tenaga's former monopoly on power production after a 1992 blackout.
He said he could understand the frustration and the embarrassment of people as a result of the blackout.
Prime Minister Mahathir Mohamad said he was "sad and ashamed" and deputy Prime Minister Anwar Ibrahim called it "a national embarrassment".
"Don't you think that we are not embarrassed, we are embarrassed," Ani said.
Iraq on Tuesday criticised the United Nations Security Council for imposing an air embargo on Sudan for failing to hand over three men accused of trying to assassinate Egyptian President Hosni Mubarak last year.
"When the Security Council deals with Arab issues it does not take into consideration principles of justice and the United Nations charter. It only becomes energetic when it wants to direct a blow against this Arab country or that," said a Foreign Ministry spokesman in remarks quoted by Iraqi newspapers.
"Iraq rejects such unjust policy being followed by the Security Council which contradicts principles and objectives of the United Nations charter," the spokesman said.
The Security Council last week imposed an air embargo on Sudan -- but delayed putting it into effect for at least three months -- for failing to extradite three men accused of trying to assassinate Mubarak in Addis Ababa last year.
Khartoum said it could not hand over the three Egptian suspects because they were not in Sudan.
The Iraqi spokesman said: "The brotherly Arabs should solve their problems by themselves...and should not internationalise them."
Sudan sympathised with Iraq during the 1991 Gulf War in which a U.S-led multinational force ended Iraq's seven-month occupation of Kuwait.
NOTE: 1996 Q3 loss includes increase in reserve for obsolete inventory of $228,000.
The U.S. Defence Department said it would begin destroying chemical weapons on Thursday at its Toole facility in Utah as its first domestic step toward destroying the entire U.S. chemical arsenal by 2004.
It said last week the first weapons to be destroyed at Toole would be M-55 rockets filled with nerve gas.
U.S. chemical weapons were already being destroyed at an installation on the Johnston Atoll in the Pacific. Toole was to be the first of eight locations in the United States that would destroy them.
The United States pledged not to use chemical weapons and must by law destroy its entire arsenal of 3.6 million chemical weapons by 2004. Toole was holding more than 44 percent of the U.S. stockpile of 30,000 tons of chemical weaponry.
The Defence Department announced last week the Toole destruction would begin this week after a U.S. district judge rejected an effort to block it.
It said U.S. District Judge Tena Campbell denied in Salt Lake City on Wednesday a preliminary injunction in a lawsuit brought by private groups led by the Kentucky-based Chemical Weapons Working Group.
It said the judge ruled the groups did not show that the incineration of the weapons would put people around the Toole Chemical Agent Disposal Facility at risk.
It said she wrote that "for individuals living closest to TOCDF, the risks resulting from continued storage are 100 times greater than the risks resulting from disposal operations."
UK mobile telephone operator Orange Plc, asked to comment on reasons why its share price has fallen below its flotation price, said the extent of continued growth in the British market was not fully understood.
"A lot of people do not understand what this transition process in our marketplace is all about," Orange group managing director Hans Snook said in an interview, referring to concern that growth in the UK market was slowing down.
"In fact, our net growth has increased dramatically...all the key drivers of the business, we are succeeding on," he said.
Cuba demanded on Tuesday that the United States hand back four Cubans who hijacked planes to flee the island, saying failure to do so could jeopardise existing immigration accords between the two countries.
The Cuban Foreign Ministry criticised what it described as Washington's "traditionally concealing and weak attitude" towards such acts and its failure to return the four Cubans involved in two separate hijacking incidents, one in July and another last Friday.
"Only a firm and energetic attitude of rejection of these acts of piracy and the return of the pirates to Cuba can discourage the repetition of acts of this nature," the ministry said in a statement.
It was the second Cuban statement in two days criticising the U.S. government for its handling of incidents involving Cubans who fled the communist-ruled island illegally to seek asylum in the United States.
Havana wants Washington to abide by accords signed in 1994 and 1995 under which illegal Cuban emigrants picked up at sea or who cross to the U.S. naval base at Guantanamo Bay in eastern Cuba should be returned to the island.
The latest statement signalled growing Cuban irritation against the United States, but it did not mention Havana's decision last week to expel a U.S. diplomat, Robin Meyer, and Washington's retaliatory expulsion of a Cuban diplomat Monday.
The expulsions added further tension to a relationship strained by Cuba's shooting down of two U.S. planes last February 24 and the introduction in March of U.S. legislation aimed at curbing foreign investment in Cuba.
Cuba was angry that the United States had not handed back a former Interior Ministry officer, Jose Fernandez Pupo, who hijacked a Cuban commercial plane at gunpoint July 7 and sought asylum in the Guantanamo Bay base.
In Friday's hijacking three Cubans forced the pilot of a small plane used for tourist trips to fly towards the west coast of Florida, where the aircraft ditched in the Gulf of Mexico. After being rescued, the hijackers asked for asylum, while the pilot said he wanted to return home.
The Cuban Foreign Ministry described Pupo as a "traitor" and the three latest hijackers as "terrorists" and "delinquents." It said the three had used a gun and knives.
"Cuba demands the immediate return of all the hijackers," the ministry said, adding they should be tried in Cuban courts.
It said that if the U.S. authorities chose to adopt a "weak attitude" to such incidents, they would be responsible for "the consequences this could have for the security of persons and air and naval traffic in the region".
If Washington failed to honour the immigration accords, "this would undoubtedly constitute an important encouragement of air piracy and other criminal acts aimed at illegal emigration" from Cuba, the ministry statement said.
Japan hopes the United States will take "appropriate" steps in its anti-dumping investigation into Japanese supercomputers, Trade Minister Shunpei Tsukahara told reporters on Tuesday.
"We want the U.S. government to cope with the issue appropriately," Tsukahara told a news conference.
The U.S. Commerce Department on Monday said it had initiated an anti-dumping investigation into Japanese supercomputers.
U.S. supercomputer maker Cray Research Inc filed a petition on July 29 with the department and the U.S. International Trade Commission (ITC) alleging that Japan's NEC Corp was selling supercomputers on the U.S. market at less than fair prices.
The ITC will make a preliminary determination by September 12 on whether U.S. companies were being injured by imports of supercomputers from Japan.
Tsukahara also said he would visit Sydney from August 26 to attend a meeting by energy ministers from the Asia-Pacific Economic Cooperation (APEC) group of nations.
Blue chip Pakistan Telecommunications Company Ltd (PTCL) rose 1.10 rupees, or 3.22 percent to 35.25 rupees on newspapers reports that a Pakistan, Dutch and Indonesian consortium could bid for a 26 percent strategic stake in the company, dealers said on Tuesday.
The stock emerged as volume leader at the Karachi bourse with a turnover of over 3.0 million shares by midsession.
"The news has triggered speculative buying of PTCL shares," dealer Manochar Jamal said. "But the news is still premature and deal in its preliminary stage," dealer Mohammad Iqbal said. -- Karachi newsroom 9221-5685192.
Foreign ministers from the Nordic countries said on Tuesday they supported efforts by the Baltic states to get into NATO.
Latvia, Lithuania and Estonia quit the former Soviet Union in 1991 and have all applied for membership of the alliance as they remain fearful of huge neighbour Russia.
Ruled by Moscow for most of the last 200 years, they want strong security guarantees against any resurgence of Russian expansionism.
"There is no doubt about our support for the Baltic states' membership of NATO," Norwegian Foreign Minister Bjoern Tore Godal, whose country is a member of the military alliance, told a news conference.
He was speaking after talks between foreign ministers from Norway, Sweden, Iceland, Finland and Denmark and their Baltic counterparts. Denmark and Iceland are also NATO members.
Russia has been angered by Baltic efforts to join NATO as it remains sensitive to any expansion of its former Cold War foe.
The Baltic states also had huge strategic importance in the Soviet defence system and were packed with military bases.
But Western diplomats say the Balts have little chance of joining NATO in a first round of enlargement.
"No matter what happens it is the job of all of us to keep the Baltic security issue on the international agenda," Danish Foreign Minister Nils Helveg Petersen said.
Swedish Foreign Minister Lena Hjelm-Wallen, whose country maintains a policy of neutrality, said she respected the wish of the Baltic states to join NATO.
Forget the Zapatistas and other gun-toting Mexican guerrillas. The real revolution is taking place in the tortilla.
Luxury tortilla stores might not sound like the breeding grounds of revolution, but for many they mark a first step to dismantling a food subsidy system that has helped quell hunger and unrest.
For decades, Mexico has paid subsidies now totalling at least $1 billion per year to keep the price of the cherished corn pancake within the means of even the dirt-poor. But now upscale stores in swanky suburbs of Mexico City are allowed to sell machine-made-to-measure tortillas fit for bourgeois bellies -- at uncontrolled prices.
"They are tortillas par excellence," says Deputy Trade Minister Eugenio Carrion Rodriguez, explaining why price controls have been lifted for the gourmet pancakes. He said stores wanting to sell them without price controls have to pass 30 quality control tests including the use of purified water, stainless steel machinery, special packaging and staff uniforms.
Traditional tortillas, ground from corn often in ways unchanged from pre-Colombian times, are pegged rigidly at 1.40 peso (18 cents) per kilo. The new premium tortillas cost up to 3 pesos (40 cents), well over double the controlled price.
"They have a cleaner, more uniform taste," said Claudia Fernandez, a housewife who calls herself middle-class and who has started to buy luxury tortilla.
Mexican families devour hundreds of millions of tortillas a day. The industry is said to be worth $3 billion a year.
Since the 1910-1917 civil war, the government has sought to make tortillas available to all Mexicans. Food shortages linked to land battles were at the heart of fighting in which more than a million people lost their lives.
But the inequity of a general subsidy system, under which billionaires and unemployed peasants pay pennies for the same product, is forcing a reappraisal of Mexico's tortilla system.
"The government is analysing ways to rationalise those subsidies so they are not generalized and so they reach those people who really need them," Social Development Minister Carlos Rojas told reporters recently.
Aside from luxury tortillas, one idea is to give free tortillas to the poor via coupons, nicknamed tortibonos. State governments already provide free tortillas to the poorest citizens and officials are looking at lifting the threshold to include more low-income families. At the same time, they want to force more wealthy Mexicans to pay free market prices.
Despite fears of possible corruption and a shifting official definition of poverty, the government is slowly working up to a fundamental tortilla policy change. Officials reiterate they will not lift the current price, but Mexicans have an adage: "The more the government says something will not happen, the quicker and more certain it is that it will."
Francisco Sanchez Armas, head of a credit bank serving the tortilla industry, said the luxury tortilla stores pave the way for price controls to disappear as early as next year.
Mexican media have pounced on the luxury tortilla story, which rivals news of Zapatista rebels in the southern state of Chiapas and a guerrilla group called the Popular Revolutionary Army (EPR) that appeared six weeks ago in Guerrero state.
"Tortillas are an important factor in the socio-political history, both past and present," Mexican anthropologist Breen Murray said. Refering to one of Mexico's most advanced pre-Aztec indigenous peoples, the Toltecs, Murray added: "Mexicans are Toltecs made from tortillas."
Malayan Banking Bhd (Maybank), Malaysia's largest bank, said on Tuesday its exposure to troubled steel company Perwaja Steel and ailing Singapore property and trading company Amcol Holdings Ltd was insignificant.
"We adopt a very conservative approach in our provisioning," he said, but declined to give details of the bank's loan provisions.
Amirsham told a press conference to review Maybank's full-year financial results that he was confident Amcol and Perwaja would turn around.
"The provisions we make today...we may be able to take back as income later," he said.
Earlier, Maybank reported a group net profit for the year ended June 30, 1996 of 1.07 billion ringgit, against 863.53 million ringgit in the previous year.
The Athens Interbank Offered Rate (Athibor) for one month rose to 13.66 from 13.52 percent and the bid rate (Athibid) increased to 13.17 from 13.06 percent.
Note: Full name is Barrington Petroleum Ltd. Second quarter 1996 results are the first to fully reflect the acquisition of Sherritt Energy Corp, which closed on May 27. Results for the period also include a one-time charge to earnings of C$570,000 in respect of an imputed interest charge.
The Australian/U.S. 10-year bond yield spread narrowed to its lowest level in over two years, but met resistance in pushing through 130 basis points this side of the Federal budget, due at 7.30 p.m. (0930 GMT).
The domestic bond market topped up Monday's rally, pushing down yields to their lowest level since March 1994, as the market continued to price in a tough fiscal statement by Treasurer Peter Costello.
Meanwhile, U.S. Treasuries softened on Monday ahead of today's U.S. Federal Open Market Committee meeting, although policy is widely expected to remain unchanged.
The local market also outperformed the Canadian bond market, which was dragged lower by the U.S.
However, the New Zealand/Australia spread narrowed slightly after N.Z. debt rallied strongly after the N.Z. government confirmed it was selling the state-owned Forestry Corporation from which its net proceeds will total NZ$1.6 billion with which to repay debt.
Lower imports shrank the U.S. trade deficit dramatically in June, the Commerce Department said Tuesday, bolstering the impression of gradual waning in the economy's vigour.
The monthly gap between exports and imports plunged 23.1 percent to $8.11 billion from a revised $10.55 billion in May as fewer new foreign-made cars and computers poured into American markets.
New bilateral irritants emerged, though, as the trade shortfall with China swelled 8.8 percent to $3.33 billion to become the biggest with any country. It surpassed for the first time the $3.24 billion deficit with Japan, which was up 3.6 percent from May.
Commerce Secretary Mickey Kantor told a news conference that the Clinton administration was "extremely resolute" about trying to break down Chinese barriers to U.S.-made goods.
While imports of relatively cheap consumer goods from China kept rising, exports to the Asian trade giant fell for a fourth straight month during June to the lowest level since the beginning of 1995, creating a deficit that Kantor called "too high."
Analysts were surprised by the sharp 3.3 percent falloff in overall June imports to $77.82 billion, while exports held up relatively well, falling just 0.3 percent to $69.71 billion.
"It says that exports are providing some underpinning for the U.S. economy but overall it tells us that we have sharply weakened in terms of economic vigour and activity," said Roger Shields, head of country risk management for Chase Manhattan Bank in New York.
Consumer goods exports in June were a record $5.95 billion, up $41 million from May. That partly offset a $138 million decline to $12.32 billion in foreign sales of industrial supplies and materials.
The United States typically runs a surplus on its trade with other countries in services like travel and tourism that reduces the impact of chronic merchandise trade deficits.
In June, the merchandise deficit fell 13.9 percent to $14.46 billion from $16.79 billion in May. Lower imports of new cars and parts, especially from Japan and Germany, as well as cheaper petroleum helped shrink the merchandise trade gap.
The surplus on services climbed 1.6 percent to $6.34 billion from $6.25 billion in May. Analysts said beforehand that an influx of tourists bound for the Olympic Games in Atlanta would boost the services surplus.
Lawrence Chimerine, executive director of the Economic Strategy Institute in Washington, said trade benefited in June as the U.S. economic expansion lost some steam and dampened consumers' ardor for imports. But he warned that it will be hard to keep exports growing.
"The economy is slowing," Chimerine said. "June marked the start of that process and the weak imports were part of it.
"But Europe is bouncing back only slowly, Japan is still wavering and Canada is weak" as a source of demand for American goods, Chimerine said. "I don't think we're going to see a lot of progress on lowering the trade deficit for the rest of this year."
For the first six months of 1996, the cumulative goods and services deficit was down 14 percent to $52.62 billion from $61.34 billion in the first half of 1995.
The cost and volume of all types of petroleum products fell in June after a sharp May runup. The cost of petroleum imports declined to $5.33 billion in June from $5.93 billion while the volume fell to 291,866 barrels from 305,171 in May.
Foreign sales of civilian aircraft declined in June by $117 million to $1.54 billion. Exports of industrial supplies and materials were off $138 million to $12.32 billion.
Imports of autos and parts from all sources dropped sharply, by $689 million to $10.79 billion in June. Computer imports were down $413 million to $4.24 billion and semiconductor imports decreased $291 million to $2.87 billion in June.
In bilateral trade, the deficit with Western Europe fell 7.1 percent to $761 million and the shortfall with Canada was down 2.2 percent to $2.42 billion.
The U.S. deficit with Mexico shrank 6.4 percent to $1.49 billion amid signs the Mexican economy was recovering from a deep recession and grew solidly in the second quarter.
The deficit with oil-producing OPEC countries dropped 26.9 percent in June to $1.40 billion from $1.91 billion in May.
NOTE - Thistle Hotels is currently 70 percent owned by New Zealand's Brierley Investments Ltd.
The Indonesian rupiah was stable against the dollar in dull late trading on Tuesday as swap rates eased further on offshore selling, dealers said.
"There is no initiative at all in the market. Operators just stayed on the sidelines," one local bank dealer said.
He said the dollar-rupiah rate was moving in a narrow range between 2,341.5 and 2,342.5 in the afternoon.
Dealers said they expected no major trouble at the lawsuit hearing on August 22 filed by Megawati Sukarnoputri, ousted leader of the opposition Indonesian Democratic Party (PDI), against the government and the military.
"But they also did not dare to take fresh positions. They wanted to wait further," one said.
The dealer said offshore operators were seen sustaining swaps unloading, possibly on speculation of a lower interest rate environment which may reduce swap points.
He said operators might have parked the rupiah in the forward market as they offloaded swaps.
Spot rupiah was quoted at 2,341.0/42.0 at 1010 GMT against an opening of 2,341.5/42.5.
Tomorrow and today rupiah closed at 2,341.15/41.45 and 2,340.90/41.50, respectively.
Overnight swap was at 0.53/0.55 and tom/next at 0.53/0.56.
One-month swap was at 18.25/18.75, two-month at 34.5/36.0, three-month at 53.5/54.0 and six-month at 108.0/108.5 points.
The central bank kept its intervention rate at 2,335/2,453 and the conversion rate at 2,335/2,381 on Tuesday.
NOTE: Full name of company is American Insured Mortgage Investors-Series 85, LP.
NOTE: The above is a table reflecting the company's monthly distribution per unit.
NOTE: The previous monthly distribution includes a $0.23 return of capital.
Mitsubishi Motors Corp, a Malaysian government-affiliated investment company and two munition makers owned by the Chinese government are to set up a joint company to manufacture car engines in China. They are expected to receive permission to set up the venture from the Chinese government by the end of this month. They hope to start making 150,000 engines annually by 1998. The joint company will be capitalised at about 40 billion yen.
Osaka prosecutors plan to raid pharmaceuticals maker Green Cross Corp today in connection with the company's sale of blood products which may have been contaminated with HIV.
Matsushita-Kotobuki Electronics Industries Ltd expects its parent current profit in the half-year to September to increase by 3.1 times from the same period a year earlier to 9.8 billion yen, compared with its former forecast of 6.2 billion yen.
Mycal Corp expects its parent current profit in the six months ending August 31 to increase by 44 percent from the same period a year earlier to six billion yen, against its previous forecast of five billion yen.
Major computer modem maker U.S. Robotics Inc plans to set up a Japanese unit in Tokyo within a few months to manufacture computer modems. The new unit will be employ about 50 people.
Japan's Showa Shell Sekiyu KK and a Chinese subsidiary of the Royal Dutch Shell group are considering selling gasoline and lubricating oil in Asia, mainly in China.
Hitachi Metals Ltd plans to set up a new company in the United States to make steel components for use in power steering pumps. It will invest $5.3 million in the new plant and start operations from February 1997.
Kirin Beverage Corp plans to boost output of yeast extracts, which are in increasing demand as food seasonings. It also plans to start producing extracts from the beginning of 1997 at its own brewery in Shiga prefecture, central Japan, as it had contracted out production to another company in Tokyo.
Fuji Zerox Co Ltd plans to market colour laser printers in Japan from the second half of the business year starting April 1997.
FGIC said it has qualified for bond insurance the following five municipal issues scheduled for competitive sale today.
--Mississippi State, Miss., $60.510 million (tax) GOs.
--Hawthorne, N.J., $5.933 million GO improvement bonds.
--Gloversville City SD, N.Y., $7.55 million school district bonds.
--Fort Mill S.D. No. 4, S.C., $24 million GOs.
--DeSoto, Texas, $6.380 million GOs.
Full House Resorts Inc and Dreamport Inc said Tuesday their Midway Slots and Racebook gaming and entertainment facility was approved by the Delaware State Lottery.
Dreamport is the gaming and entertainment unit of GTECH Corp.
The 35,000-square-foot facility, developed by a Full House and Dreamport joint venture, has 500 gaming devices including slot machines and a 150-seat simulcast parlor and racebook with individual television screens for players.
The Full House/Dreamport joint venture financed and developed the project, and will act as manager of the gaming facility under a 15-year management contract.
President's Cup international team captain Peter Thomson on Tuesday named Australian Robert Allenby as one of his two nominated players to face the United States next month.
Thomson said fellow Australians Peter Senior and Wayne Riley were chasing the final spot in his 12-man team for the Ryder Cup-style team event in Washington from September 13-15.
But both Senior and Riley could make the team if Japan's Jumbo Ozaki decides not to take up his automatic invitation, Thomson said.
The international team will feature the top 10 available non-Europeans in the world rankings plus two players selected by Thomson.
Five-times British Open champion Thomson has yet to confirm his team after replacing fellow Australian David Graham as non-playing captain last month.
Thomson said Allenby would play as an automatic selection if Ozaki, ranked six in the world, did not play, freeing places for both Riley and Senior.
"I expect to hear from Jumbo this week," Thomson said.
World number one Greg Norman, fellow Australian Steve Elkington, Zimbabwe's Nick Price and Ernie Els of South Africa are expected to lead the international team's challenge.
The Americans won the inaugural President's Cup in 1994.
Meiliana Wijaya has been appointed vice president of PT Sigma Batara in charge of equity sales for Indonesia.
Wijaya was previously head of equity sales in PT Multicor.
Carter Holt Harvey Ltd, one of the rival bidders for state-owned Forestry Corp of New Zealand, said on Tuesday it was simply outpriced by the winning Fletcher Challenge-led consortium.
"I think the essential thing was that they put the best price on the table," CHH Forests Chief Executive Devon McLean told Reuters. "It was a price that we were not in a position to reach," he said.
McLean said CHH already had a large forest resource that was continuing to increase in terms of woodflow.
"It will increase 50 percent over the next 10 years so it is not a question of us being short of fibre. We have plenty of plans in place for further wood processing from our own estate."
The government earlier announced a sale to a consortium comprising Fletcher Challenge, Brierley Investments Ltd and China's Citic, for NZ$2.026 billion.
ValuJet Inc said it began two days of federal-safety "proving runs" on Tuesday in hopes of getting regulatory approval to resume scheduled flights at the end of this week.
Gregg Kenyon, a ValuJet spokesman, said FAA inspectors on Tuesday morning began putting a single DC-9 and two crews through various flight exercises, including emergency procedures. A ValuJet DC-9 crew consists of a pilot, a co-pilot and three flight attendants.
The proving runs are scheduled to continue through Wednesday afternoon. Kenyon declined to discuss the number of flights or cities involved.
"They will run through a variety of flight situations with FAA personnel on board, including some emergency scenarios," Kenyon said.
The carrier, once a dream for Wall Street investors but a nightmare for big carriers, must prove it can meet the terms of an FAA consent order under which the proving runs are taking place.
ValuJet hopes to resume flights on Friday but cannot do so without FAA approval.
"We're sitting at a red light, waiting for it to turn green," said Kenyon, when asked to characterize the airline's situation.
In preparation for that day, pilots and flight attendants have already begun to undergo retraining programs developed to meet the FAA consent order.
Between 175 and 200 registration agents and 145 customer service representatives also have been notified that they could start work soon if the U.S. Transportation Department allows the airline to begin selling tickets and advertising flight service.
German haircare products manufacturer Wella AG said on Tuesday it expected full-year 1996 sales to rise by a nominal seven to 10 percent, with earnings likely to rise at a stronger pace.
Pre-tax profit totalled 61 million marks, down from 83 million marks in the year-earlier period, but Wella said the year-earlier figure contained 35 million marks of extraordinary income from the dissolution of provisions no longer required.
"We are anticipating a continuation of the positive business develpoment in the second half of 1996," the company said.
"Based on present foreign currency situation the nominal increase in sales should be between seven and 10 percent." Operating earnings would exceed that growth rate, Wella said.
First-half sales rise of 11.3 percent outstripped market growth of less than three percent. Wella said it had not included non-core business in the first-half accounts becuase of restructuring measures. On a comparable sales basis, sales would have risen 12.2 percent, the company said.
Wella also said it achieved an increase of 7.9 percent in sales to hairdressers despite a stagnating hairdressing market. That exceeded a planned sales increase of five percent.
Sales of haircare products to retailers jumped 21.3 percent, well above expectations. Sales of scents and cosmetics rose 12.4 percent in the first half due to successful product launches.
Domestic sales were 574 million marks versus 533 million, while sales abroad rose to 1.24 billion marks from 1.1 billion.
Banta Corp said Tuesday it intends to repurchase up to 1.5 million shares of its outstanding common stock over the next few months.
As of August 15, 1996, the company had 31,202,853 shares of common stock outstanding.
Purchases will be made from time to time in the open market or in privately negotiated transactions, it said.
Banta provides printing and digital imaging services to publishers of educational and general books, special-interest magazines, consumer and business catalogs, and direct marketing materials.
Derma Sciences Inc said on Tuesday that the Republic of the Philippines has issued provisional Certificates of Product Registration for its line of wound care products.
The approval grants a general clearance for six of the company's products to be marketed and sold throughout the Philippines.
The company said it expects the final approvals to be granted in the near future.
"This approval now clears the way for our partner, Inter-Health Inc to set up an official launch of our products," said John Borthwick, president and chief executive officer in a press release.
Derma said that according to its contract dated April 1995, Inter-Health will begin to fulfill its obligations some time in the fourth quarter of 1996.
The contract calls for minimum purchases of $358,000 over the next two years, Derma said.
Hermes Kreditversicherungs-AG, Germany's biggest credit insurer, said it expects 25,000 company insolvencies during the current year.
The insurer said on Tuesday that this would represent a 15 percent rise in bankruptcies compared to the previous year.
On the European level the outlook was worsening as well. Hermes said it expected a six percent increase in bankruptcies in Europe this year. In 1995 the number stagnated.
The Hermes forecast came despite its expectations of an upswing in the European economy during the second half of 1996.
Hermes said this was due to the momentum given to the economy by monetary policy, in particular by low interest rates.
Hermes said it recorded an 11 percent increase in premium income to 438 million marks ($294 million) during the first half of this year.
At the same time the volume of claims increased. Hermes said bankruptcies of big companies such as shipbuilder Bremer Vulkan Verbund and construction group Maculan were responsible for this development.
County cricket clubs on Tuesday rejected a move to give England selectors greater control over their international players.
A clause in the recent Acfield Report recommended that the selection committee chairman should be able to withdraw England players from county matches in order to rest top talent.
But on Tuesday that was the only one of the 14 Acfield clauses to be thrown out at a Test and County Cricket Board meeting at Lords, although the board hierarchy was assured requests to rest a player would receive "a sympathetic ear."
The seven-man Acfield committee put forward in-depth proposals earlier this year for streamlining the selection of English teams.
TCCB chief executive Tim Lamb said: "The Acfield working party will be disappointed, but deep down in their heart of hearts they probably knew it would not get agreement."
Tuesday's meeting also rejected a move to have overseas players banned from English cricket in 1999 and 2000 on a trial basis and decided that in future all test matches will include Sunday play, with no rest day.
NOTE - Urban Life Co Ltd is a real estate company specialising in condominiums.
The Tunis Stock Exchange on Tuesday closed down by 0.19 percent in higher trade, bourse sources said.
The market's 29-share index closed at 611.88 from 613.02 on Monday.
Trade volume was 2.24 million dinars against 360,000 dinars.
STB  STB bank was up 5.27 percent to 22.35 dinars and Banque du Sud up 2.37 percent to 30.2 dinars.
BTEI bank was down 3.01 percent to 21.9 dinars.
South Korea's exports to China are to rise 23 percent to $11.2 billion this year, an increase from $9.1 billion a year ago, the Korea Trade Investment Promotion Agency (KOTRA) said on Tuesday.
But KOTRA said in a statement that this year's rise is slower compared with the 47 percent growth seen from 1994 to 1995.
It said China's strong economic growth, lower interest rates and import tariff cuts are forecast to boost exports, while China's austerity programme remains a burden.
-- Oppenheimer started coverage of Sonat Offshore Drilling Inc and Global Marine Inc as buy and Diamond Offshore Drilling Inc as outperform, an Oppenheimer source said.
-- The analyst was not available for comment.
-- Sonat ended Monday at 50-1/8, Global Marine at 14-3/4, Diamond Offshore at 50-3/4, Ensco at 30 and Marine Drill at 9-1/8.
SCHERER HEALTHCARE, INC.
SOURCE  Scherer Healthcare, Inc.
Unique Mobility Inc said Tuesday it was awarded two more contracts from the Pentagon's Defense Advanced Research Projects Agency to develop a high-power electric traction drive system for use by large vehicles.
The company will also conduct extensive testing of its flywheel energy-storage system, designed to sustain a vehicle's power when peak performance is needed, it said. The system is designed to conserve energy.
Terms of the Pentagon contracts were not disclosed.
Thailand's opposition parties submitted on Tuesday a no-confidence motion against Prime Minister Banharn Silpa-archa accusing him of damaging the country through mismanagement and inefficiency.
The president of the parliament has set September 11 as the date when the debate will begin, an opposition member of parliament (MP) told Reuters.
Opposition MPs have said they are confident they will be able to bring about an end to the six-party coalition government.
"The public will be shocked with the evidence we have," Democrat MP Chamni Sakdiseth told reporters after the motion was tabled.
Banharn has said he is ready to face the accusations in parliament and has no plans to dissolve the house.
Three hundred employees of car rental giant Hertz Corp went out on strike just one week before the Democratic National Convention begins here, the company said.
Those wanting to rent Hertz cars will be able to do so, despite the strike, said a spokesman for Hertz, the world's largest car rental firm and a unit of Ford Motor Co.
Hertz managers were staffing customer service counters, courtesy buses and vehicle service areas left abandoned Monday by members of Teamsters Local 781, said Hertz's Joe Russo.
If needed, Hertz is prepared to maintain interim staffing through the convention at the affected locations at O'Hare and Midway airports, as well as two downtown offices, he said.
"Our guess is the union saw some opportunity to put some pressure on Hertz with the Democratic National Convention in town and we fully anticipated that," said Russo by telephone from Hertz headquarters in New Jersey.
The 300 employees have been working without a contract since December 1995. Negotiations apparently stumbled over work rules and the two sides are not far apart, Russo said.
"The strike came as a bit of a surprise yesterday because we thought this was an awfully attractive package," he said.
The union could not be reached for comment.
A Stock Exchange of Singapore spokesman said the company had requested for the suspension pending an announcement "soon."
Transmarco shares closed at a pre-suspension price of Singapore $9.80, up $0.95. Turnover was 2.65 million shares.
This included a married block of about 720,000 shares at between S$6.75 and S$8.00 early in the morning, dealers said.
Dealers speculated that major shareholder, Sukamto Sia was selling some of his shares at S$8.20 to Sampoerna.
China's imports of uncast copper and copper materials in the first seven months were 343,338 tonnes, up 33.9 percent from the same period last year, the China Securities newspaper said on Tuesday.
In July, imports of uncast copper and copper materials reached 54,217 tonnes, up from 48,173 tonnes in June, it said, quoting customs statistics.
Imports of uncast copper, including alloys, soared to 128,006 tonnes in January-July, up 84.4 percent compared with the same 1995 period. Imports in July alone were 16,334 tonnes, down from 17,694 tonnes in June, it said.
In January-July, imports of copper materials hit 215,332 tonnes, up 15.2 percent compared with the same period last year. Imports in July alone were 37,883 tonnes, it said.
China imported 345,748 tonnes of copper scrap in the first seven months, down 47.5 percent from the same period last year. Imports in July were 58,468 tonnes, it said.
U.S. municipal bond prices ended Tuesday's session mostly unchanged, but trading levels were slightly higher than in recent days, market participants said.
As expected, the Federal Open Market Committee ended its meeting this afternoon leaving interest rates unchanged and market participants relieved.
The retail sector was extremely quiet, as it has been for the past several sessions, typical for August, traders said.
The new issue market saw several deals repriced in the afternoon.
In another closely-watched offering, Fleet Securities said it received the verbal award on Utica, N.Y.'s $24.5 million private placement. The top yield was 8.25 percent in 2019.
A market source familiar with Utica's deal said state officials purchased a "moderate amount" of the $11.4 million note portion of the beleaguered city's offering.
On the competitive side, Trustmark National Bank won $60 million Mississippi taxable general obligation bonds, and reoffered the 2008 and 2014 maturities at 7.13 percent and 7.40 percent, respectively. The rest of the deal was not reoffered.
Wednesday's calendar features seven competitive offerings totalling $156 million and an expected $681 million negotiated pricings. Underwriters said another $393 million of deals might be priced, depending on market conditions.
The largest competitive offering Wednesday is a $120 million Connecticut deal at 1100 EDT. The largest on the negotiated side is a $140.6 million Jersey City, N.J., refunding, via Merrill Lynch & Co.
In futures Tuesday, the September municipal contract ended at 115-9/32, up 5/32. The September T-bond contract was down 1/32 to 110-28/32, moving the MOB spread six ticks higher to 141 ticks.
Tuesday  Aug20 In 1,000 lbs.
Consumer Reports magazine slapped a "Not Acceptable" label on two sport/utility vehicles Tuesday, saying the light trucks "have too great a tendency to roll over in certain situations."
The magazine said the 1995 and 1996 models of the Isuzu Trooper, made by Isuzu Motors Ltd., and the 1996 Acura SLX, also made by Isuzu but sold by Honda Motor Co. Ltd., were a danger to consumers because they "tipped up high on two wheels" in road tests.
The magazine said consumers should stop buying the models, called for an immediate recall of the approximately 35,000 cars that have been sold and said repairs or replacement models should be offered by the manufacturer.
A spokesman for Isuzu defended the vehicles.
"It's very important for both consumers in general and Isuzu Trooper owners to understand very clearly that the Isuzu Trooper meets all federal safety standards and regulations," Isuzu spokesman Daniel McCue told Reuters.
But Smith Barney analyst David Garrity said the report by the influential magazine could prove damaging.
"If Consumer Reports comes out and says, 'Don't buy this product,' the sales will go down," Garrity said. "You saw what happened to the Suzuki Samurai in the '80s."
The tiny Suzuki Samurai, introduced in the mid-1980s, was also the target of a Consumer Reports article alleging that the sport/utility vehicle was prone to rollovers. The campaign eventually led to the vehicle being pulled off the market.
Garrity said the report was a blow to Honda's Acura brand, which it has worked hard to cultivate. "If I were Honda, I'd demand (of Isuzu) that the problem be fixed, and I'd be more focused on developing my own product," he said.
Consumer Reports also asked the National Highway Traffic Safety Administration to investigate the Trooper and SLX and called for more stringent government oversight of vehicles with narrow wheelbases.
Government regulations currently call for all vehicles with a wheel base of 110 inches or less to carry a warning sticker stating that "sharp turns or abrupt manoeuvres" may cause the vehicle to roll over or crash.
Both the Trooper and the SLX have wheelbases of 108.7 inches.
Both companies said they were reviewing Consumer Report's test data and would look further into the matter.
Neither McCue nor Acura spokesman Mike Spencer knew of any reports from customers of their vehicles tipping or rolling over, and neither knew of any ongoing NHTSA investigation.
"We have not had an opportunity to thoroughly review the testing methodology used. Nevertheless, Acura believes the SLX is a safe and reliable vehicle when driven in a responsible manner," Spencer told Reuters.
According to Spencer, only about 1,857 SLXs have been sold since the vehicle was introduced in November, 1995.
The U.S. Defense Logistics Agency said it sold no stockpile tin at its daily offering Tuesday.
The DLA said it offered the tin for sale at $2.77 per lb.
First Union Capital Markets Corp said it won $4.541 million of Salem, N.J., general obligation bonds, Series 1996, with a lowest rate of 5.35, highest price of 100.32.
Pakistani stocks ended sharply down on Tuesday's new accounts day after blue chips tumbled in selling pressure after opposition parties began an anti-government campaign, dealers said.
They said the share prices were likely to open further lower on Wednesday.
Sharp declines in core investment stocks like Pakistan State Oil (PSO) and Adamjee Insurance kept the market under pressure, dealer Ali Raza Mooney said.
PSO plunged 27 rupees to 325, Adamjee Insurance 6.50 to 82.50, Dawood Hercules 3.00 to 134 and Reckitt & Colman 3.50 to 89.75. PTCL rose 0.65 to 34.80 and HUBCO 0.30 to 28.80.
Dry weather in some northerly and inland zones of Argentina's grain belt may prevent farmers sowing as much wheat as they had hoped, according to some exporters and analysts.
"I don't see much more being sown," said Armando Casalins, of the Cereals Elevators Association, who expected total area to end up at around 6.5 million hectares. But Casalins said wheat already sown is in good condition and final wheat production should be somewhere near 14.5 million tonnes.
He thought that farmers who initially planned wheat but have been frustrated so far by lack of rain will be tempted by other products such as maize, whose relative price has improved. But he warned that a shortage of maize seed may mean that some farmers may have to stick with wheat whatever the prices.
The exporter said that wheat output should be around 14-14.5 million hectares. While some areas are suffering a dry spell, he was confident that yields would not be much affected.
But a second exporter was more concerned by the effect on yields of the dry weather.
"Entre Rios is in trouble, central and southern Santa Fe is in trouble, and Cordoba has problems," he said, adding that he thought output was likely to be between 13.5 million tonnes and 14 million tonnes. Until recently, many in the market were hoping for up to 15 million tonnes.
But he was more optimistic than some about area. "We think about 6.7 million hectares have already been sown, and that there are areas in the south that have not been accounted for. We think we'll make seven million hectares or just about."
In its weekly crop report last Thursday, the Agriculture Secretariat said farmers had sown 6.4 million hectares with wheat by August 9.
Argentina's 1995/96 wheat crop, which took a battering from a winter drought, produced only 9.2 million tonnes from about five million hectares.
U.S. Surgical Corp said Tuesday the federal government has raised no objections about its $18 cash tender offer for all outstanding common shares of Circon Corp.
It said the waiting period during which the government could review the proposed merger and raise antitrust concerns had expired.
The offer expires August 29, unless extended.
Malaysia's tin price fell three cents to a 14-month low of 14.97 ringgit ($6.01) a kg after huge selling on the local market despite a steady overnight close on the London Metal Exchange (LME).
"The market is down to its lowest level since June 1, 1995, when it closed at 14.60 ringgit," said a dealer.
Traders said the market's support level had traditionally been 15 ringgit a kg.
There were offers for 156 tonnes compared to bids for 128. Turnover fell to 128 tonnes from 145 tonnes. Buyers were Europeans, Japanese and locals.
Traders said the local premium over LME narrowed to $30 a tonne against $40 previously.
The Bosnian Serb nationalist SDS party in Zvornik has heeded a warning to remove campaign posters featuring Radovan Karadzic or risk disqualification from upcoming elections, international mediator Carl Bildt said on Tuesday.
"European Community monitors surveyed the town and reported back to me that they found only one Karadzic poster in a public place on a garage wall near the local hospital," Bildt told Reuters on Tuesday.
Bildt met the mayor and local SDS party chief in Zvornik on Saturday and threatened election penalties if posters he saw along the main street were not removed by Monday.
"It looks as if the warning has had an effect, which is good. Let's hope that it lasts," Bildt said.
"I have also written to the SDS leadership indicating that I have yet to see an SDS poster anywhere without Karadzic's face on it."
Radovan Karadzic, twice indicted for war crimes, served as president of both Bosnia's Serb Republic and the SDS until international political pressure forced him from both offices last month.
The Dayton peace accord which ended Bosnia's 43-month conflict prohibits people indicted for war crimes from holding public office or playing any role in the elections scheduled for September 14.
But in the run-up to the poll, posters with Karadzic's name and face have been appearing in public, much to the consternation of the international community, for whom Bildt is High Representative in Bosnia.
Zvornik, 80 km (50 miles) northeast of Sarajevo, once had a majority Moslem population but is inhabited by Serbs.
The European Commission said on Tuesday it had cleared a joint venture between Germany's Siemens AG and Sommer-Allibert Industrie AG for the development, production, installation and sales of integrated car interiors.
The Commission said in a statement that the parties were already in competition with several other large suppliers.
"The concentration is not likely to lead to the creation or strengthening of a dominant market position. Therefore the operation does not raise serious doubts as to its compatibility with the common market," it said.
Novell Inc Tuesday unveiled IntranetWare, a new service designed to establish the company in the growing corporate intranet market.
The product is a full service intranet and Internet access platform for businesses of all sizes and builds upon the services offered in its Netware 4.11 software.
Novell did not reveal the pricing of the software which it plans to release in the fall.
The company said IntranetWare is compatable with existing Novell networking software and will allow firms to preserve existing network investments by allowing them to selectively install the networking components needed to upgrade their systems to meet new demands.
Novell said it will concentrate IntranetWare in the future but will continue to sell and support NetWare 4 and NetWare 3.
"With IntranetWare, Novell opens our product line and 55 million to the future of networking," said Robert Frankenberg, chairman and chief executive officer.
Novell said the new software is secure acting as a "level-one security firewall" because only the network server carries out all tasks in contrast to traditional systems where numerous users have that capability.
Orem, Utah-based Novell has been active in networking software since 1983 but has fallen behind Netscape Communications Corp and Microsoft Corp in building intranet market share.
Smith Barney Inc.
Rauscher Pierce Refsnes, Inc.
Ireland's largest food company, Kerry Group Plc, said on Tuesday that pre-tax profits rose by 21 percent to 20.0 million punts ($32.08 million) in the first half of 1996, reflecting a strong performance in all divisions.
The group's main ingredients division, bolstered by the $402 million acquisition of U.S. food ingredients group DCA in November 1994, reported a seven percent increase in operating profits to 29.4 million punts.
On the consumer foods side, Kerry Foods reported a 15 percent increase in operating profits to 10.0 million punts while operating margins rose to 4.4 percent from 4.1 percent in the first half of 1995.
"While the bovine spongiform encephalopathy (BSE) scare did affect sales in some business areas at the end of the first quarter, strong advances in branded product sales in the second quarter contributed to the satisfactory margin improvement reported," the company said in a statement.
The group's agribusiness division reported an operating profit of 0.9 million on turnover of 30.4 million.
Kerry said current trading was in line with group targets and it remained confident of a satisfactory outcome for the full year.
Chairman Michael Hanrahan said the company would now focus on maximising the potential of its fruit ingredients business on a Europe-wide basis following the acquisition of Ciprial, a specialist fruit ingredients company with operations in France and Italy, in February.
Kerry's debt-equity ratio, which soared to 120 percent following the purchase of DCA, stood at 108 percent by June 30, 1996.
But the 54 million punt acquisition of Ciprial has led the group to revise its end-year net debt target upward. Kerry, which had planned to cut its debt-equity ratio to 70 percent before buying Ciprial, is now aiming for gearing of 90 percent at end-1996.
New Zealand's second string recorded their biggest win of the tour with a 31-0 victory over Western Transvaal (halftime 12-0) in atrocious conditions on Tuesday.
More than 80 percent of the pitch was covered in standing water when the teams ran out after torrential rain and hail lashed the ground for two hours before kickoff.
The warmup game had to be abandoned midway through the second half as the players were pelted by hail and the ground turned white.
Western Transvaal captain, Eugene Hare, who holds the record number of appearances for the province, said afterwards: "I have never seen conditions like this."
The All Blacks responded superbly to the conditions and scored five tries -- all through their backs -- to put behind them the struggles they had in overcoming Boland and Western Province in their previous midweek matches.
However, winger Jonah Lomu looks no nearer a return to the test team. He completed his second 80 minutes of the tour but frequently limped heavily on his left knee.
Western Transvaal: Dewald Basson (D.P. Swart, 65th); Wynand Lourens, Fanie Heymans, Tony Lincoln, Carl Bensch; A.J. de Jager, Eugene Hare (captain); Kleinjan Tromp, Joe Beukes, Ronald Ferreira, Gerhard Laufs, Lukas Swart, Rocco Peddar (Hanro van der Merwe, 40), Leon Boshoff (Rodney Mitchell, 53), Andre Coetzer (Tenk Hendriks 40).
New Zealand: Matthew Cooper; Eric Rush, Tabai Matson, Alama Ieremia, Jonah Lomu; Carlos Spencer, Ofisa Tonu'u; Taine Randell (captain), Chresten Davis, Andrew Blowers (Todd Blackadder, 66), Glenn Taylor, Blair Larsen, Phil Coffin, Norman Hewitt (Anton Oliver, 64), Mark Allen.
Roanoke Electric Steel Corp Chairman Donald Smith said on Tuesday the company expects its fourth quarter earnings to improve over the third quarter, adding that it sees 1996 as its second best year on record."
"Although the lower selling prices for bar products are expected to affect fourth quarter earnings, business conditions continue to be strong for fabricated products and the backlog for bar products remains good," he said in a statement. "We expect fourth quarter earnings to improve over the third quarter and look for 1996 to be our second best year on record," he said.
Earlier, The company reported earnings of $0.39 per share for the third quarter, compared to $0.65 a year ago.
MFS Communications Co Inc said Tuesday it signed an interim agreement with GTE Corp under which GTE will provide interconnection for MFS local telephone service in Florida and Texas.
MFS owns and operates fiber optic networks in the Tampa and Dallas areas, which GTE serves. MFS said the agreements allow the company to begin providing local service to businesses in the areas.
MFS and GTE have similar agreements in California and Washington.
-- Merrill Lynch said it maintained an accumulate rating for Brazilian paper producer Klabin.
-- It said it was reducing its earnings per ADR for Klabin to reflect the lower-than-expected 1996 second quarter results and weaker-than-anticipated paper prices.
-- "We now estimate earnings per ADR of $1.05 for 1996 and $1.27 for 1997," it said, adding that its previous estimates were of $1.16 for 1996 and $1.34 for 1997.
-- Klabin reported earnings per ADR of $0.16 in the second quarter.
-- Klabin preferred and common shares were not traded this morning on the Sao Paulo bourse.
The Australian Council of Trade Unions (ACTU) said the government's 1996/97 (July/June) budget on Tuesday was an unfair attack on the nation's poor and said it feared deep spending cuts could push the jobless rate higher.
ACTU president Jennie George said deep budget cuts to labour-market assistance programmes and the tightening of eligibility criteria for unemployment benefits could see the jobless rate rise over the next two years.
George also criticised the government's family assistance programme, describing the tax breaks as poorly targeted. "The greatest benefit will go to those most well off," she said.
She welcomed in principle the budget announcement of a tax surcharge on the retirement savings of high-income earners, but said wealthy people could avoid this by putting their savings into the superannuation funds of their non-working spouse.
"I think the hardest hit are the people with the greatest need in our community," she said.
The net issue of ad hoc treasury bills by the government fell below the "within the year ceiling" mutually agreed by the government and the Reserve Bank of India (RBI), the RBI said on Tuesday.
"The net issue of ad hoc treasury bills came down below the within the year ceiling after a period of a little over two months when the net issue of ad hocs was well above the ceiling," RBI said in a statement.
The net issue came down to 68.55 billion rupees on August 16, 1996 and 59.90 billion rupees on August 17, 1996, it said.
On August 14, 1996, the net issue of ad hoc treasury bills over the March 31, 1996 level was 79.95 billion, which was well below the "within the year" ceiling of 90.0 billion rupees as agreed between the government and RBI, the statement said.
NOTE - Kaneshita Constructon Co Ltd is a medium-scale general contractor.
Ethiopian authorities have prepared shelters for 150,000 people threatened by expected flooding of the Awash River, officials said on Tuesday.
The shelters were stocked with food, blankets and medicine, officials in the capital Addis Ababa said.
The Awash River, fed by rains from the highlands, was threatening to overflow and destroy thousands of hectares of sugar estates at Shoa, Wonji and Metharar along its banks some 100 km (65 miles) east of Addis Ababa, officials said.
Waters of the Koka dam, in the same area, have reached danger level -- only 60 cm below the top of the 110-metre-deep dam. The government has warned people nearby to leave before the dam is opened to release excess water, officials said.
South Korea on Tuesday began knocking down Seoul's blue-domed capitol building in a bid to erase memories of Japanese rule of the Korean peninsula.
The capitol was built by the Japanese in 1926 in the grounds of the Kyongbok Palace, the principal royal palace of Korea's Yi dynasty which was deposed in 1910 when the Japanese began 35 years of colonial rule.
"Now the black shadow which has overcast the Kyongbok Palace, the symbol of (Korea's) Yi dynasty, will finally disappear and be buried in history," Chung Yang-mo, director of the national museum housed in the capitol building, told reporters.
South Korea began the demolition process last year by plucking the tip of the dome off the building, the seat of the Japanese colonial government, as it marked the 50th anniversary of the end of World War Two.
"We have finally moved everything, including sculptures, paintings and other historical objects," said an official at Ministry of Culture and Sports.
He said the demolition would take until the end of the year.
As part of a campaign to "correct distorted history", South Korea is restoring the original palace and grounds before Seoul and Tokyo co-host the 2002 World Cup soccer finals.
South Korea and Japan established diplomatic ties in 1965 and the two have burgeoning trade, investment and tourism ties.
But surveys consistently show the people of each nation list the other as the country they most love to hate.
South Africa's radical black Pan Africanist Congress (PAC) acknowledged on Tuesday that its guerrillas had targeted white civilians but said it made no apologies.
PAC leader Clarence Makwetu told the Truth and Reconciliation Commission, headed by Archbishop Desmond Tutu, that the PAC regretted the August 1993 killing of American student Amy Biehl in Gugulethu black township outside Cape Town by youths allied to the organisation.
Biehl was stabbed and stoned to death by a mob that attacked her car when she was dropping off friends in the township at the time of a teachers' strike.
"This act occurred in the context of a strike for recognition by the South African Democratic Teachers' Union," Makwetu said.
"To support the strike, an operation was launched to stop deliveries from towns into the townships. Although the PAC was not involved, the Pan Africanist Student Organisation (PASO) acted in solidarity with their teachers. They wrongly targeted and killed Amy Biehl," he said.
"We expressed our regret and condolences to Amy Biehl's family in a letter to the U.S. ambassador (at the time).
"We restate this position yet again through the truth commission. But misguided as the deed was, we support the amnesty applications of all those convicted and sentenced for the offence."
Four PAC supporters have been jailed for 18 years each for killing Biehl, 26, from Newport Beach, California.
Discussing the activities of the PAC's armed wing, the Azanian People's Liberation Army (APLA), Makwetu said "a new pattern arose in the 1990s where civilians within the white community were attacked".
"The actual targets were decided by local commanders... Internally based operatives often made errors that APLA had earlier avoided."
Makwetu described the killing of civilians as "departures which we as political leaders who declared war must and do take responsibility for".
But he added: "We make no apologies. We have nothing to hide."
The Truth and Reconciliation Commission this week is hearing submissions from political parties aimed at giving a broad perspective of their activities durig the apartheid years.
The PAC broke away from the African National Congress in 1959 but never achieved the mass appeal of President Nelson Mandela's party.
Less than two percent of South Africans voted for the PAC in the country's first all-race elections in April 1994.
Police blamed APLA for a series of gun and grenade attacks in the years leading up to the election, including one on a Cape Town church service and others on white social gatherings.
Makwetu said the PAC objected to the format of the truth commission because "our people who were forced to fight a war of liberation are being made to appear on the same platform as their aggressors".
"Perpetrators of the apartheid crime against humanity as well as their victims are being equated," he said.
The right-wing Freedom Front made its presentation to the commission on Monday and the National Party, led by former white president F.W. de Klerk, is due to present its submission on Wednesday.
PageMart Wireless Inc said on Tuesday it launched a flat-rate service that allows subscribers to get customized financial information on their pagers.
The company said the service, infoQuotes, would alert subscribers when items in their personal investment portfolios move significantly or hit defined buy or sell parameters.
Subscribers would pay $15.95 per month for the basic service. They could use an interactive voice response system to define parameters and update specific indices they want to track, PageMart said.
Greek depos and forex swaps firmed at mid-session but eased after the forex fixing to hold morning levels in late quiet dealing and the Bank of Greece drained overnight funds at an unchanged 12.80 percent, dealers said.
"Rates have come down after the central bank's fixing where a total of 40 million ecus were sold," said a money dealer at a state bank. "Dealing is calm and there is excess liquidity."
Surplus liquidity was estimated at over 100 billion drachmas by some dealers.
"It is very quiet and rates are hovering around morning levels," said a forex bank trader. "Developments in the forex market will be the main factor behind changes in drachma liquidity."
"Unlike past national elections, the market has received the news about early elections calmly," he said.
"Some corporations and individuals could decide to close out positions the day of the announcement of early elections given that people in Greece buy the fact not the rumour but their impact will be limited," he said.
Greek Prime Minister Costas Simitis will decide this week whether to call early elections next month, government spokesman Dimitris Reppas told reporters on Monday.
"The prime minister is considering all options, he will announce his decision very soon, most probably within the week," Reppas said during Monday's briefing.
Based on Greece's constitution, elections, scheduled for October 1997, must be held within a month from the time they are announced.
The mark was quoted at 159.60/65 drachmas from Tuesday's 159.670 fix, the dollar at 238.02/12 drachmas from 237.920 and the Ecu at 300.62/72 from 300.730 drachmas.
The Cyprus Grain Commission said on Tuesday it had accepted a tender of Oriac Incorporated, Cairo, for 18,000 tonnes of corn at $182.48 per tonne.
In a statement, it said it had also accepted a tender of Finagrain S.A. for 12,000 tonnes of European milling wheat at $190.69 per tonne.
The prices were cost and freight free out of Limassol port, Cyprus, the commission said.
The IGP-M is composed by three other economic indicators.
They are the IPA wholesale price index, which rose 0.17 percent in the period, the IPC consumer price index, which gained 0.19 percent in the period and the INCC national index of construction costs, which advanced 0.68 percent.
The IPA has a 60 percent weighting in the IGP-M, the IPC a 30 percent weighting and the INCC 10 percent, the FGV said.
The IGP-M index, which measures inflation over 10-day intervals, is published by the independent research institute Fundacao Getulio Vargas (FGV).
NOTE - Sanyo Coca-Cola Bottling Co Ltd is a Coca-Cola bottler operating in western Japan.
The bid-to-cover ratio for the auction as a whole was 3.39, on demand of 11.18 billion pesos.
Goldman, Sachs & Co.
Merrill Lynch & Co.
Dean Witter Reynolds Inc.
Raymond, James & Associates, Inc.
A.G. Edwards & Sons, Inc.
Thousands of civilians struggled out of the Chechen capital any way they could on Tuesday and many said Russian forces had already started carrying out a threat to bomb the city to drive out rebels.
Civilians have been trying to flee Grozny for the past two weeks, since the rebels sparked a flare-up in fighting by attacking the city. But on Tuesday there appeared to be more than on any of the previous days.
Most of them were on foot rather than in cars and buses.
Konstantin Pulikovksy, acting commander of Russian forces in Chechnya, on Monday gave civilians 48 hours to leave before he unleashes an all-out bombardment. He said on Tuesday that the situation could only be resolved by force.
Itar-Tass news agency quoted Pulikovsky as saying artillery had already opened up in Grozny with "pinpoint strikes" against the rebels, who control most of the city, but that aircraft were not being used.
Chilean forestry firm Maderas y Sinteticos SA (Masisa) said it has sold 181,800 shares in its Forestal Tornagaleones division for $474,000.
The stake was bought by Rawson Investment Limited and Masisa will receive payment in 20 days from August 20, said the forestry firm in a statement to the Securities Superintendency.
Cool, dry weather last week hampered soybean growth in key U.S. growing states and pushed crop ratings lower, state agricultural statistics services reported.
In Illinois, the leading soybean-producing state last year, 90 percent of the crop had bloomed as of Sunday, compared with the five-year average of 95 percent. Fifty-six percent of the crop had set pods, well behind the 82 percent average.
A lack of rain stressed Illinois soybeans in the week ended Sunday, causing the crop's rating to fall to 32 percent good to excellent, down from 40 percent the week earlier.
Iowa soybeans were progressing at a normal pace, with 85 percent setting pods, near the 86 percent average.
Iowa crop conditions were almost unchanged, with 69 percent rated good to excellent, versus 68 percent the week before.
Cool, dry weather stalled crop progress in Minnesota, where 70 percent of the soybean crop had set pods, against the average of 82.
"Across the state, rain and growing degree days are needed for row crop development and hay growth," the Minnesota report said.
Fifty-six percent of Minnesota's crop was rated good to excellent, down from 58 the previous week.
While scattered showers last weekend were expected to aid soybean development in Indiana, the crop there was about 15 days behind the average pace. The crop was 42 percent podded, versus the average of 84.
Indiana crop conditions declined to 35 percent good to excellent, down from 43 percent the previous week.
State-owned Indian Oil Corp (IOC) has issued a tender to buy superior kerosene for delivery in October, traders said on Tuesday.
The tender seeks 30,000-tonne cargoes for delivery to Bombay on the Indian west coast and 45,000-tonne cargoes for delivery to Madras or Haldia on the east coast.
The cargoes are to be delivered in a 10-day range.
The tender closes on September 5 and offers should be valid until September 6.
The following bond was announced by joint lead managers Rabobank and SBC Warburg.
Iran said it signed on Tuesday a $1.2 billion deal to build a joint oil refinery in Pakistan, appearing again to work around U.S. moves to choke Tehran's oil industry.
State-run Tehran radio said the refinery deal was signed in Islamabad by Iran's Oil Minister Gholamreza Aghazadeh and Pakistani Production Minister Mohammad Asghar.
The radio said the two Moslem neighbours would invest jointly in the construction of the 120,000 barrels per day (bpd) refinery in Pakistan's southwestern Balochistan Province.
"It has been estimated that the construction of this refinery will cost $1.2 billion, 75 percent of which will be met by international sources and the rest will be paid jointly by the two countries," the radio added without giving financing details.
Tuesday's deal follows a controversial $23 billion accord last week with Tehran's western neighbour Turkey to supply it with Iranian natural gas to the year 2020.
The accord with Washington's NATO ally angered the United States which is seeking to isolate Iran politically and force it to change what it sees as Tehran's anti-Western stand by cutting international financing for oil and gas projects.
Washington accuses Tehran of sponsoring terrorism and seeking to develop nuclear arms. Iran denies both charges.
President Bill Clinton on August 5 signed the Iran-Libya Sanctions Act which will penalise companies that invest $40 million or more a year in oil and gas projects in both states.
The radio said Iran's equity share in the Pakistan project would be met by providing technical services and equipment for the refinery which will process Iranian crude.
The two states also signed an agreement to conduct a feasibility study for a proposed project to supply Pakistan and India with Iranian natural gas by pipeline. The project is estimated to cost around $3.5 billion, the radio added.
U.S. Senator Alfonse D'Amato, an architect of the Iran-Libya sanctions, has warned foreign firms against involvement in the pipeline project and has urged Clinton to pressure Turkey and other states to abandon projects with the Islamic republic.
Several Western powers and other world states have strongly criticised the unilateral U.S. sanctions against Iran.
On Monday French oil group Total SA said that Malaysia's Petronas had taken a 30 percent stake in a huge project to develop two oil and gas Siri fields in Iran, the world's third largest oil exporter.
The announcement ended a search of more than a year for risk-sharing partners on the $600 million projects.
Tehran also said on Tuesday that it had started work on its South Pars Gulf field to produce one billion cubic feet of gas and 40,000 barrels of liquefied gas per day. Iran has the world's second largest natural gas reserves after Russia.
The Iranian news agency IRNA quoted Mostafa Khoei, director of the engineering and development department at the National Iranian Oil Company, as saying the company was studying proposals from foreign firms to carry out the project which is worth about $900 million.
Daiwa Institute of Research Ltd downgraded Nippon Electric Glass Co Ltd to a "B" rating from its previous "A", Daiwa Securities brokers said on Wednesday.
In its three-grade rating system, the research institute assigns a "B" rating to issues whose values it sees moving within 10 percentage points in either direction of the Tokyo Stock Exchange first-section TOPIX index over the next six months.
NWE oil products were weaker on Tuesday except for bouyant fuel oil barges, traders said.
Naphtha slipped lower with crude futures. Buyers were prepared to pay around $185 cif NWE for Russian cargoes.
Gasoline also fell as NYMEX futures fell back. Eurograde barges traded at $209.50 fob ARA from $205.50 in the morning.
High sulphur fuel oil barges gained up to $2 to trade at $99 fob ARA amid strong buying, higher paper and firm crude. Cargoes did not follow suit.
*The Indian rupee closed at 35.64/66 per dollar on Tuesday, a shade up from the opening quote of 35.66/68, dealers said.
*The day's trade was largely in the 35.64/67 range and saw moderate volumes, dealers said.
*Premia on forward dollars spurted on inter-bank paying pressure, dealers said. "The volume of swaps today was quite large," a dealer said.
"It does not appear to reflect rise in corporate demand for forward dollars," said another dealer.
The New York Stock Exchange said on Tuesday Allen Group Inc, Newbridge Networks Corp, Rexene Corp and Jenny Craig Inc are unavailable for news pending.
Corimon SACA also is unavailable for after-hours trading, the NYSE said.
AMR Corp's American Airlines said it was optimistic that the United States and Britain would reach an "open skies" aviation agreement, despite a report that British officials were taking a tough line in the negotiations.
"There's just too much benefit on both sides of the Atlantic. Open skies is just too good for all sides," said American Airlines spokesman Tim Smith said.
The news report also said the British government would not agreed to an open skies pact modeled after a similar agreement reached between the U.S. and Germany.
American Airlines said its proposed transatlantic alliance with British Airways is contigent on the U.S. and Britain reaching an open skies agreement. The Fort Worth, Texas-based air carrier said such a pact would increase competition and benefit both British and U.S.-based airlines.
"It's not our place to set criteria. Each side will come to an agreement on what they believe open skies to be," Smith said.
Talks are set to resume in Washington on August 28-29, but the U.S. Department of Transportation said the session would also address sides issues such as dispute procedures.
Industry consultants said those two issues remain the biggest stumbling blocks.
Edward Starkman of the Starkman Airline Report said it was too early to say how closely a final U.S.-Anglo pact would resemble the deal with Germany.
"It's going to be a long battle, even if it is solvable, which I'm not sure it is," Starkman said.
He also said British negotiators may be "posturing" in taking a tough line, as the Financial Times reported.
"It's all part of the negotiating process. Each side, when they get frustrated, go to the press," Starkman said.
British Airways said Tuesday that it was still hopefull that Britain and the United States would reach an agreement.
British Airways shares slipped five pence to 530p in London on Tuesday, while AMR's shares in New York rose 5/8 to 84-5/8.
Deep staffing cuts and slightly higher banking service revenues led Brazil's Bamerindus to return to the black with a 20.431 million real net profit in 1996's first half, a top bank official said.
Mauricio Schulman, president of Bamerindus' board of directors, said the bank reduced its staff by 3,000 employees to 25,142 people in the first half, contributing to drop in administrative expenses to 838 million reais in the period from 948 million reais in December 1995.
Efforts to increase banking service revenues were also part of the bank's strategy to improve its finances. Bamerindus said receipts from banking services rose to 255 million reais in the first half, up from 214 million reais in the same period of 1995.
Schulman said what hurt the bank most were the market rumors. He said the bank lost 1.585 billion reais in total deposits from 1995's first half to this year's same period.
Time deposits fell to 1.785 billion reais in the first half from 4.440 billion reais in the same period a year ago, according to Bamerindus' balance sheet.
Schulman recognized the liquidity troubles, but he said he expects liquidity to improve once Bamerindus gets a central bank loan backed by its own assets or it sells holdings.
"We are showing our situation to the central bank," he said, noting that Bamerindus has been in talks with the central bank.
Bamerindus has already raised about 500 million reais by selling stakes in steel mills CSN and Usiminas and home appliance maker Refripar.
Schulman denied, however, that Bamerindus was considering transferring control of the bank or selling parts of it as ways of bailing out the institution.
"We do not imagine selling parts of the bank and we have not held any talk with other banks (to transfer control)," he said.
Schulman also said Bamerindus Group's recent reorganization of assets will strenghten the bank.
Under the restructuring plan, completed at the end of June but only announced in July, Bamerindus' profitable insurance firm was absorbed by the bank, while its past due loans, worth 680 million reais, were transferred to the group's holding company.
The restructuring had little impact on the bank's first half results, but he noted "the effects will be stronger in the second half."
The U.S. trade gap narrowed dramatically in June as imports of merchandise and petroleum plunged from May levels, the Commerce Department said on Tuesday.
The monthly deficit dropped 23.1 percent to $8.11 billion from a revised $10.55 billion in May -- much lower than the $9.4 billion shortfall that Wall Street economists had forecast for June.
June exports eased a slight 0.3 percent to $69.71 billion while imports dropped 3.3 percent to $77.82 billion.
Amid the big overall improvement in June trade, China emerged for the first time as the nation with which the United States has the largest bilateral shortfall.
The deficit with China climbed 8.8 percent to $3.33 billion in June, surpassing the $3.24 billion deficit with Japan that was up 3.6 percent from May.
Commerce noted that exports of American-made goods to China declined for a fourth straight month in June, which is likely to fuel trade tensions between the two countries.
Steady improvement in shrinking the deficit with Japan was the main reason that China became the leading deficit nation in June, Commerce officials said. The second-quarter deficit of $10.5 billion with Japan was the smallest quarterly deficit in five years, the department said.
Previously, the department said the overall May trade deficit was $10.88 billion but it revised that down to a $10.55 billion gap.
The United States typically runs a surplus on its trade with other countries in services like travel and tourism that partly offsets big merchandise trade deficits.
In June, the merchandise deficit fell 13.9 percent to $14.46 billion from $16.79 billion in May. Lower imports of new cars and parts, especially from Japan and Germany, helped shrink the merchandise trade gap.
The surplus on services climbed 1.6 percent to $6.34 billion from $6.25 billion in May. Analysts said beforehand that an influx of tourists bound for the Olympic Games in Atlanta would boost the services surplus.
The cost and volume of all types of petroleum products fell in June after a sharp May runup. The cost of petroleum imports declined to $5.33 billion in June from $5.93 billion while the volume fell to 291,866 barrels from 305,171 in May.
Foreign sales of civilian aircraft declined in June by $117 million to $1.54 billion. Exports of industrial supplies and materials were off $138 million to $12.32 billion.
Imports of autos and parts from all sources dropped sharply by $689 million to $10.79 billion in June. Computer imports were down $413 million to $4.24 billion and semiconductor imports decreased $291 million to $2.87 billion in June.
In bilateral trade, the deficit with Western Europe fell 7.1 percent to $761 million and the shortfall with Canada was down 2.2 percent to $2.42 billion.
In trade with Mexico, the U.S. deficit shrank 6.4 percent to $1.49 billion amid signs the Mexican economy was recovering from a deep recession and grew solidly in the second quarter this year.
The deficit with oil-producing OPEC countries dropped 26.9 percent in June to $1.40 billion from $1.91 billion in May.
Cargolux, the Luxembourg-based all-cargo carrier, has launched a scheduled freighter service operating between Manchester Airport to Hartford (Connecticut), a Manchester Airport statement said.
The Boeing 747-200 freighter will fly once weekly on the Luxembourg-Manchester-Hartford route and from Hartford- Manchester-Luxembourg, three times a week, the statement added.
This is the first time Cargolux has operated scheduled services into Manchester Airport, although it has operated ad hoc flights previously, said the airport's cargo business development manager, Gordon Bevan said.
The service began yesterday and hi-tech equipment will be the major equipment, he added.
With a 100 tonne capacity, the B747-200F is actually an Atlas Air aircraft, although previously it s belonged to Cargolux, Bevan said.
"The start of this Cargolux service is another positive development in achieving "open skies' for Manchester. It is madness to apply for permission at ministerial level for individual routes and we will continue to lobby for completely unrestricted access to the airport," Geoff Muirhead, Manchester Airport's chief executive said.
Polish insurance company Amplico Life earned net 9.6 million zlotys in the first half of 1996, 470 percent up from the same period of last year, the company said in a statement on Tuesday.
It said the company's pre-tax profit also surged almost 400 percent to 12.65 million zlotys in the first half.
Amplico said gross premiums rose 176 percent to 90.5 million in the first half and technical reserves rose threefold to 96.4 million zlotys.
Amplico's spokeswoman Balbina Wolongiewicz told Reuters the company boosted its share of Poland's life insurance market to 7.1 percent in the first half from 4.6 percent at the end of 1995.
Amplico Life, active in Poland since 1990, is 55-percent owned by American International Group Inc (AIG) and 45-percent by Poland's state-owned bank Pekao SA.
Seventy-five leaders of the U.S. high tech industry Tuesday endorsed President Clinton for re-election, saying Clinton's economic policies merited a second term.
"I've lived in (California's) Silicon Valley since I was five years old, and the past four years have been the best Silicon Valley has ever had in terms of growth in revenue, jobs, international market share and just sheer momentum," said Steve Jobs, founder of Apple Computer.
Jobs spoke during a telephone conference call with Clinton and Vice President Al Gore in which the endorsement was announced. The call was broadcast on loudspeakers in the White House press room.
Clinton responded to the pat on the back from the high tech leaders with a new warning against the $548 billion across-the-board tax cut proposed by Republican presidential candidate Bob Dole.
"People need to understand that if you have to borrow money to get a tax cut today, that just means higher interest rates immediately, and that means fewer jobs, fewer new companies and higher home mortgage payments and car payments and credit card payments," Clinton said.
Meantime, the Clinton campaign took aim at Dole's promise in a speech at the Veterans of Foreign Wars convention Tuesday to spare veterans health benefits from spending cuts.
"Today Bob Dole added more ornaments on his Christmas in August campaign -- listing more programmes that he will not cut to fund his massive, election year $550 billion tax cut scheme," Clinton campaign spokesman Joe Lockhart said in a statement.
Lockhart said Dole was campaigning on an economic plan "that would inevitably lead to cuts in education, environmental enforcement and law enforcement even more drastic" than those called for by the highly unpopular 1995 Republican congressional budget, which Clinton vetoed.
A rally in the utilities sector lifted Hong Kong stocks to a higher close on Tuesday, with the Hang Seng index closing above 11,300 points for the first time since March.
The Hang Seng index closed 99.03 points higher at 11,312.51. Turnover was HK$3.44 billion compared to HK$3.71 billion on Monday.
The Hang Seng utilities sub-index rose 205.25 points, or 2.17 percent, to 9,676.05.
"The utilities shares need to go up otherwise it is very hard for the (Hang Seng) index to move higher from this level," said Frederick Tsang, head of research at PrimeEast Securities.
"Most of the (utility) shares have not performed well this year," he said.
However, analysts noted that volume was quiet this session.
"It's partly because of the FOMC (Federal Open Market Committee) meeting and also because it is late summer," said Mak. The U.S. Federal Reserve meets later on Tuesday.
Analysts said cautiousness in the market may have buoyed the utility stocks which are considered a defensive play. They said if the Federal Reserve keeps rates steady at its meeting, the whole market could benefit on Wednesday.
Other property stocks were also firm with Sun Hung Kai Properties adding HK$0.75 to HK$77.00 and Hysan Development up HK$0.40 to HK$24.25.
Trading in Guangdong Investment shares was suspended during the afternoon. The company placed 80 million existing shares at HK$5.22 each on Tuesday, UBS Securities said. The stock fell HK$0.20 to HK$5.35 before the suspension.
Yaohan International Holdings rose HK$0.11 to HK$0.88 after it said it plans to privatise its Yaohan Hongkong Corp unit. Shares in Yaohan Hongkong fell HK$0.01 to HK$0.36.
Currency markets were on red alert for central bank rate manoeuvres on Tuesday after German money supply growth slowed, but players expected steady U.S. credit policy after the Federal Reserve meeting later in the day.
The German mark gave back some territory recently seized from its European satellites and saw its losses accelerate after German July M3 growth came in at 8.6 percent, down from June's 9.6 percent and at the lower end of analysts' expectations.
Economists said the figure nourished speculation that the Bundesbank would trim its repo rate after Thursday's council meeting, the first since the bank's summer recess.
The dollar held steady against the mark, but was unable to make headway as traders awaited the Federal Open Market Committee (FOMC) meeting with no expectations of a rate move.
Dealers and analysts said the market was pricing in a 10 to 15 basis-point reduction in the 3.3 percent German repo rate later this week. But some warned against complacency.
Nick Stamenkovic, economist at DKB International in London, recalled that the market had been widely anticipating a repo cut before the summer recess, only to be disappointed.
"Lingering in the back of the market's mind is that the Bundesbank is saying one thing but might do another," he said.
Peter Heath, senior dealer at Merita Bank, saw danger for European peripheral currencies whatever the Bundesbank decided.
"The risk is if there's no change the mark will strengthen again," he said. "If they do cut by 10 or 15 points, the market will say this is the base (in rates) and buy marks on that."
While debate bubbled over German monetary moves, there was widespread confidence the U.S. would leave rates untouched.
Just a few weeks ago, Fed tightening was considered a foregone conclusion. But a spate of inflation-benign U.S. data triggered a sea change in opinion -- although whispers of a possible Fed rate rise as a pre-emptive strike against inflation have not died away completely.
"It's hard to find anyone looking for a Fed tightening today," said Jeremy Hawkins, senior economic adviser at BankAmerica. "There's a very small risk of a hike and the main focus now is whether the Fed has to move at all this year."
Fed inaction now does not mean the prospect of U.S. credit tightening is dead and buried, analysts said. A Reuters poll of 30 economists showed none expected a policy change on Tuesday, but 19 saw the Fed hiking rates by the end of the year.
The dollar was quoted at 1.4895 marks by midsession, barely changed from Monday's late European level of 1.4881.
The mark eased to 3.4173 French francs and 1,018.50 lire from Monday's closes of 3.4218 and 1,020.22 respectively.
One more vital piece of German data is due before the Bundesbank meets on Thursday. The market will scrutinise the July business climate index from Germany's influential Ifo institute, out on Wednesday, for a last rate clue.
Economists predict at best a small improvement in the index, seeing it inching up to 91.0 after hitting a three-month low of 90.4 in June. A soft number would stoke easing speculation.
The Bank of France monetary policy council also meets this week, but most economists do not anticipate a rate cut. However, easing by the Bundesbank would boost the chances of a near-term French rate reduction, they said.
-- Rodman & Renshaw Inc said Tuesday it initiated coverage of Movado Group Inc with a buy rating and a 12- to 18-month price target of $29 a share.
-- Movado shares were unchanged at 18-1/8.
-- "With its fiscal 1996 (ended January 31) revenue base of $185.9 million, its current global market share is small," Rodman said in a report. "However, in the U.S. which represents about 20 percent of this $9 billion wholesale global market, (Movado) is a major player in the segments in which it competes -- namely watches with wholesale prices from $80 and up."
-- Rodman said it believes Movado is poised to continue to sustain consistent annual double-digit top- and bottom-line growth as it steadily increases its profitable market share.
Richard Branson's Virgin group is planning to expand into South Africa, taking all of the sprawling group's major brands into the country, the Financial Times reported.
Virgin Radio has joined a consortium applying for a commercial radio licence in Johannesburg and the company also plans to open Virgin Megastores in South Africa, as well as introducing its Virgin Vodka and Virgin Cola brands there, the paper said.
Virgin Airlines is already scheduled to begin regular service to Johannesburg in October.
Argentina's Central Bank said Monday it placed $5.04 billion in overnight reverse repurchase agreements on Aug 16.
The reverse repos were set at 4.75 percent against government bonds.
COMEX copper settled lower as the market gave back Monday's gains, though prices were still locked inside a tight trading range established several weeks ago.
Although December has most open interest, traders were keeping an eye on the September contract for signs of break out from the 90.00 to 94.00 cents per pound range.
"We had a lot of shorts stopped out yesterday, and we added some shorts today," a COMEX floor source said.
December copper went out 1.95 cents lower at 89.00 cents, traded 90.40 to 88.70 cents. September settled 2.35 cents off at 90.90 cents with spot August down 2.25 cents at 91.20 cents.
Richard Hirsch of Deutsche Sharps Pixley Metals said COMEX closed significantly higher than LME on Monday therefore some of the gains had to be given up on Tuesday's opening.
"We are locked in a rigid sideways range pattern - once again after rallying above the congestion on Monday we fell back into it sharply," Hirsch said.
Trading was routine with little fresh news. LME stocks rose 5,000 tonnes to 226,000 tonnes, in line with market expectations.
The Dutch government's new 5.75 percent bond due September 2002 raised 2.3 billion guilders in two days, the Finance Ministry said on Tuesday.
Tap sales will remain open daily from 0700 GMT to 1500 GMT until further notice.
Current Index Reflects the Equivalent of    55,198 hd of cattle.
*Reflects current and previous day's total boxed beef load count multiplied by 115, the average head per boxed beef load.
Note: Index reflects simple average of live and box equivalents.
India would try to put 145 private sector proposals to build power plants in a "fast track" category for government approval, along the lines of seven units now in the pipeline, a senior official said on Tuesday.
"All the fast track projects would be cleared by September 30," Power Secretary P. Abraham, the most senior civil servant in the power department, told a meeting of U.S. and Indian representatives on the energy sector.
India, which wants major foreign investment to meet a huge power shortfall, had marked eight proposals it considered as practically viable for "fast track" approval with federal guarantees to lure billions of dollars in investment.
One of the companies later withdrew, saying it did not need a federal government guarantee to ensure payments for the power it produced.
"The power sector is the story of the '90s with respect to Indo-U.S relations," said Dirk Forrister, head of the U.S. delegation said.
Industry estimates say that India, which has an installed capacity of 87,000 megawatts per year, would have an additional demand for 142,000 megawatts by 2007.
State-owned companies and the non-conventional sector are expected to contribute a total of 55,000 megawatts, and an investment of $223 billion is estimated to be necessary to make up the shortfall.
Indian opened up its power the sector under an economic reform programme launched in 1991. U.S. firms Enron Corp and CMS Energy Corp have been front-runners among foreign power generation firms making use of India's open-door policies.
"The new government is very keen to streamline the programmes to speed up the process," Abraham said.
He added the government was also in the process of reforming unprofitable state-run electricity boards. Their financial health has raised doubts among foreign investors who would have to sell electricity to the boards.
"Electricity boards need to become better paymasters and steps are being taken to make electricity boards more viable to foreign investment," Abraham said.
AmeriGas Propane Inc, general partner of AmeriGas Partners LP, and Philips Petroleum Co said on Tuesday that AmeriGas Partners had bought Philips 66 Propane Co.
Terms were not disclosed.
Philips 66 Propane Co is Philip's retail propane marketing subsidiary.
Separately, AmeriGas Propane announced the partnership's acquisition of the assets of Golden Propane Inc of Yuma Arizona, from Kenneth and Patricia Ford.
The move will add about 600,000 gallons to AmeriGas Partners annual sales volume, AmeriGas Propane said.
1996 Q2 operating profit from Target rose to $240 million from $144 million last year; from Mervyn's rose to $54 million from $3 million last year; and from the department store division fell to $10 million from $24 million last year.
1996 six months operating profit from Target rose to $373 million from $241 million; from Mervyn's rose to $93 million from $4 million; and from the department store division fell to $38 million from $62 million.
NOTE: Year earlier period ended July 29, 1995.
The U.S. Federal Reserve met on Tuesday to discuss the future course of interest rates and was widely expected to keep rates steady amid mixed signals on the economy.
"The speeches made by various Fed governors and by bank presidents recently are not pointing toward tightening," said Preston Martin, chairman of HomeVest Financial Services Inc. in San Francisco.
"I would think the odds are very heavily weighted toward the prospect that there will be no change at the next policy-making meeting," said Martin, a former Fed vice chairman.
The central bank's policy-making Federal Open Market Committee (FOMC) started meeting at 9 a.m. EDT (1300 GMT). If past practice is followed, any decision should be announced around 2:15 p.m. EDT (1815 GMT).
Martin's forecast was shared unanimously by the 30 economists polled last week by Reuters, although some of those experts did not rule out a rate rise later this year.
Financial markets marked time Tuesday morning as they awaited the outcome of the central bank meeting, with bond and stock prices little changed.
The Fed meeting takes place at a time when questions abound about whether the economy is beginning to cool off after growing at a fast clip in the second quarter.
Until just a few weeks ago, many economists believed the economy was growing quickly enough to require an interest-rate rise by the Fed to slow it down and prevent inflation. However, a series of recent reports containing early signs of a slowdown changed those views.
The latest came on Tuesday, with news that the U.S. trade deficit fell by more than 20 percent in June as imports plunged. Analysts said the steep drop in imports pointed to slackening domestic demand and a slowing U.S. economy.
"We had data very recently showing the housing market is starting to fade and the inflation reports were good," said Joel Prakken, chairman at the St. Louis forecasting firm Macroeconomic Advisors LLC.
"All of that suggests we are seeing a slowdown from the second quarter and that the Fed does not need to move," he added.
Some experts, however, said the economic signs were inconclusive and did not rule out a rate rise later this year.
Any rate increase would represent a reversal in the Fed's monetary policy. The previous rate change was in January, the last of a series of credit easings undertaken when the economy appeared soft. The economy has rebounded strongly since then.
The federal funds rate, which commercial banks charge each other for overnight cash, is now at 5.25 percent. The funds rate is controlled by the Fed and acts as a benchmark for other short-term interest rates.
The discount rate, which the Fed charges member banks for loans, stands at 5 percent.
NOTE - Kegalle Plantations is one of six newly privatised estate firms trading in Colombo.
Mail-order computer merchant Gateway 2000 Inc. said Tuesday it will sell its Destination personal computer, which combines the features of a home computer with those of a big-screen television, in stores.
Analysts believe the computer has not sold well through Gateway's traditional mail-order business. But they are watching it closely as a test of an emerging category of living room PC-TV that Sony Corp., International Business Machines Corp., Compaq Computer Corp. and others are thought to be gearing up to introduce.
Gateway's computer, with prices starting at $3,999, will be available at Nobody Beats The Wiz stores on the East Coast this week and CompUSA Inc. stores around the United States by mid-September, the company said.
The computer will be the only Gateway product sold through retail chains, the North Sioux City, Iowa-based company announced in New York.
The Pentium processor-based system offers video images superior to those of television, Gateway said.
Both computer and television functions are controlled through a wireless keyboard and a wireless remote control and mouse dubbed the Field Mouse.
The system is compatible with consumer electronics components such as videocassette recorders, stereo systems and laser disc players, and can accept video feeds from cable television systems, traditional antennas or other video devices. Audio signals from the Destination system can be piped through home stereo systems to offer "surround sound."
Gateway stock rose 50 cents to $42.50 in afternoon trading on Nasdaq.
Stocks were mixed in the second slowest trading day of the year Monday as markets braced for a crucial Federal Reserve meeting Tuesday.
Bonds fell on widespread expectations that the Fed's Federal Open Market Committee (FOMC) would leave short-term interest rates alone. The dollar ended mixed against major currencies in advance of the Fed meeting, as well as Thursday's meeting of the Bundesbank on German interest rates.
Crude oil prices, boosted by strong demand for heating oil, bubbled to a four-month high, topping $23 per barrel.
On the New York Stock Exchange, the Dow Jones industrial average rose 9.99 points to 5,699.44. The Nasdaq index was off 2.74 points at 1,130.91.
In the broader market, advancing issues led declines 1,225 to 1,030 on volume of 294 million shares on the New York Stock Exchange, the second slowest turnover this year after 281.6 million shares July 29.
Analysts said the higher close for blue-chip stocks was propelled by gains in transportation, oil and gold stocks.
"It's a very, very quiet day," said Harry Laubscher, analyst at Tucker Anthony. "Everyone is sitting on the sidelines, seeing what the Fed will do."
Robert Stovall of Stovall/Twenty-First voiced analysts' consensus prediction on the Fed meeting, saying, "I believe the Fed has concluded it will not do anything, and that's contributing to the low volume. People don't want to make a major move before the Fed meeting."
Laubscher said while he saw no strong trends in Monday's trading, he believed the market still had room to rise. "There's a good chance it could go higher from here," he said.
One of the strongest sectors was oil stocks, helped by the strong gains in oil prices. On the New York Mercantile Exchange, September crude oil rose 60 cents to $23.26 a barrel, the highest price since mid-April.
Airline stocks racked up impressive gains after the carriers, led by Continental Airlines, said they were raising domestic air fares by at least 10 percent.
On New York's Commodity Exchange, the active December gold contract closed up $1 at $392.40 an ounce, helping push gold shares higher.
But the strength of some sectors could not shake the stockmarket out of its seasonally slow summer period.
"You're seeing the market on vacation now," said Stovall. "It's mid-August, we're between political conventions ... and the market tends to be drifting."
The bond market was mostly quiet on the eve of the Fed meeting. The benchmark 30-year Treasury bond dropped 12/32, or $3.75 on a $1,000 bond, raising its yield to 6.80 percent to 6.77 percent on Friday.
While currency traders also expected the Fed to keep interest rates steady, there was less certainty about what the Bundesbank, Germany's central bank, would do when it meets Thursday.
"What the market is focusing on right now is the upcoming Bundesbank meeting," said Dorit Ronnen, a foreign exchange trader at Bank Leumi Trust Co. of New York.
In late New York trading, the dollar settled at 1.4880 German marks, down from 1.4930 marks Friday. The U.S. currency rose slightly to 107.80 Japanese yen from 107.70 yen.
In overseas markets, the London Stock Exchange's FTSE 100 index neared a new record high of 3,877.9 early in trading but slipped back to end the day 9.2 points lower at 3,863.7. The Tokyo market's key Nikkei average rose 272.41 points, or 1.31 percent, to 21,106.41 in light trading.
U.S. stocks were steady at the open on Tuesday as investors took a cautious approach ahead of the conclusion of the Federal Reserve's Open Market Committee (FOMC) meeting.
The 30-year U.S. Treasury bond was down 2/32 to yield 6.80 percent.
Six months to June 30, 1996.
    Group cash flow (bln ats)		  1.49 vs     n.a.
NOTE - Analysts had forecast an EBIT for the first half of 1.25-1.7 billion schillings.
NOTE - Workforce and balance sheet total compared with December 31, 1995.
China's National NonFerrous Metals Industry Corporation has formed a large copper group to handle copper production and marketing in southern China's Yunnan province, officials said on Tuesday.
"We combined one copper processor and four mines in Yunnan to form a large-scale business and strengthen China copper's competition ability in the international market," a company official told Reuters by telephone.
The Yunnan Copper Group, with one billion yuan of registered capital and 3.2 billion yuan worth of total assets, was expected to have a capability of annually producing 100,000 tonnes of raw copper by the year 2000, the official said.
"Our annual sales income will reach seven billion yuan and pre-tax profit will reach one billion yuan by 2000," he said.
"We are now also applying for the right to conduct copper imports and exports to further expand our business," he said.
German utility group Viag AG on Tuesday said its net profit this year ought to at least match 1995's 1.32 billion marks ($886.1 million) despite a 21 percent slide in its earnings in first-half 1996.
The diversified group said its pre-tax profit slumped to 1.178 billion marks in the first six months of 1996, but chairman Georg Obermeier stressed that the comparative 1995 figure was swollen by one-off gains from selling off units.
Speaking to a news conference, Obermeier said operating profit had risen 10 percent in the six-month period, but declined to give absolute figures.
He also noted that the bulk of Viag's first-half profit in 1995 was the result of one-off gains from the sale of its 43.4 percent stake in Germany's biggest paper maker PWA and the final consolidaton of its SKW Trostberg unit.
"Overall the Viag group is developing in line with ... expectations. The economic weakness of the winter period had an effect on the cyclical divisions, however growth tendencies are evident again in several areas," Viag said.
Viag also said its group sales expanded by two percent to 21.803 billion marks from 21.375 billion in the first half of 1996.
The group said sales growth was varied across different divisions, with strong gains in its energy units, in its SKW unit's natural fibres division, drinks packaging at its Schmalbach-Lubeca unit and at Computer 2000.
However turnover in aluminium business at its VAW unit and steel trading at its Kloeckner unit had come under strong pressure, Viag said.
Overall packaging sales dropped to 5.9 billion marks from 6.3 billion marks, while the other core business segments -- energy, chemicals and logistics -- posted sales growth.
Viag said it would continue to expand its core business areas and proceed with a range of restructuring and cost-cutting measures.
Group investment in fixed assets dropped to 792 million marks from 913 million marks in the first half of 1996 while group spending on participations dropped dramatically to 178 million marks from 1.49 billion.
In the first half of 1995, Viag and its units bought several major companies including SBI Systems Bio-Industries, bought by Viag's chemicals division and a majority stake in Computer 2000.
Viag's workforce was little changed at 82,874 compared with 84,939 in the first six months of 1995.
Taiwan's state-owned Chinese Petroleum Corp (CPC) is keeping on hold crude processing arrangements with two refiners in Okinawa until the issue of costs is resolved, a CPC source said on Tuesday.
CPC had a term processing deal with Okinawa's Nansei Sekiyu KK refinery for more than two years which expired in February and has not yet been renewed.
The Taiwanese firm also had a spot processing deal with Okinawa Sekiyu Seisei, an Idemitsu Kosan facility, to process a 500,000-barrel cargo between September and October last year.
Sekiyu Seisei is trying to forge a term processing deal with CPC, the source said.
"Only until the processing economics prove to be attractive to CPC, there is no incentive for us to continue with the processing deals. From a commercial point of view, we prefer to import. But we will not preclude the possiblity that high ranking decisions could be made based on political considerations," the source said.
But the source would neither reveal the processing fee that CPC is seeking nor the rate that the refineries are asking under the negotiations.
The source said the costs have changed from earlier deals because CPC has decided to lift better quality 0.5 percent sulphur fuel oil to meet stringent environmental regulations. It lifted 1.0 percent sulphur fuel oil previously.
But as the Okinawa refineries do not have facilities to blend methyl tertiary-butyl ether (MTBE), its gasoline would not meet CPC's improved specifications, the source said. MTBE is an additive to boost the octane number of gasoline.
However, CPC would not have any problems lifting 0.5 percent sulphur gas oil from Okinawa because it exports the monthly cargo outside Taiwan, the source said.
The higher minimum wage signed into law Tuesday will be welcome relief for millions of workers, but it may also translate into higher prices for hamburgers, pizzas and other fast-food items, some restaurant chains said.
The 90-cent-an-hour increase will have little short-term impact on many fast-food chains that already pay workers rates above the federally mandated minimum.
But in the long run, industry officials fear that workers already earning above the new minimum wage, which will rise to $5.15 an hour next year, will be looking for more.
"What we're concerned about is the ripple effect it brings," said Bruce Cotton, chief spokesman for Long John Silver's Restaurants Inc. in Lexington, Ky.
"Our average crew wage is about $5.20 (an hour) so short-term there is not going to be any impact," said Denny Lynch, spokesman for Wendy's International Inc., which operates about 4,300 restaurants in the United States.
President Clinton signed into law the first increase in the minimum wage in five years, boosting it by 50 cents to $4.75 on Oct. 1 and 40 cents more to $5.15 on Sept. 1, 1997.
The White House estimates the new law will mean a raise for about 10 million American workers, many of them in restaurants and stores.
Most small businesses had opposed the increase, saying it would prompt them to hire fewer people, particularly young people looking for entry-level jobs.
But some economists argued that the negative effects of an increase in the wage, first imposed by the federal government in 1938 at 25 cents an hour, would be minimal.
To help get the bill through the Republican-controlled Congress, a package of about $22 billion in tax breaks aimed mostly at small businesses was added to the measure.
As a result of the higher minimum wage, American Restaurant Partners L.P., which operates 62 Pizza Hut restaurant franchises, expects its total wage costs will rise $500,000 over the next 12 months.
"If you raise someone who started in the last two months (to the new minimum wage level), you also have to raise everybody else," said Terry Freund, chief financial officer of American Restaurant Partners.
To compensate, the Wichita, Kan.-based restaurant operator hopes to raise prices by about 3 percent. The risk, Freund added, is that higher prices will keep some customers away or prompt them to scale back on the pizzas or other items they normally order.
Beyond the minimum wage requirements, competition for workers -- from cooks to delivery drivers to counter staff -- has forced many fast-food chains to pay up to hire good help, particularly in metropolitan markets. That competition is being driven by an increase in restaurant openings, particularly fast-food and casual dining establishments.
"There are neighbourhoods where we have to pay $6.00 an hour to $6.50 or $7.00 to get" good workers, Wendy's Lynch said. "The competition is setting the wage."
Fast-food industry executives said there has been competition for workers since the late 1980s, although the increase in restaurant openings is making the search for employees more intense.
Another problem for fast-food chains is wage competition from other employers. A fast-food worker, for example, may be able to earn $50 or $60 a night in tips at a casual dining establishment, executives said.
"For QSRs (quick service restaurants) ... it's even tougher to keep the kids," said Roger Lipton, president of Lipton Financial Services.
Brothers.
Sweden's Riksbank (central bank) said on Tuesday it drained 70 billion crowns from the market in the morning's seven-day reverse repurchase tender.
The repo, which was set at an unchanged fixed rate of 5.40 percent, replaced a seven-day operation that drained 71 billion crowns from the market.
The central bank said 16.55 percent of the bids in the auction were allocated.
The repo rate was cut last Tuesday by 15 basis points to 5.40 percent from 5.55 percent.
The other two elements of the central bank's interest rate corridor, the deposit and lending rates, are currently set at 4.75 percent and 6.25 percent respectively after a 50 basis point cut on Thursday.
German Economics Minister Guenter Rexrodt is to talk to European Competition Commissioner Karel Van Miert on Tuesday in a bid to cool a growing row about payments to Volkswagen AG, a Commission spokesman said.
"There will be a contact this afternoon between Mr Rexrodt and Mr Van Miert to see how to proceed with this affair and how to calm the proceedings down a little bit," spokesman Nikolaus van der Pas told a news conference.
Saxony premier Kurt Biedenkopf, a Christian Democrat (CDU) ally of Chancellor Helmut Kohl, overrode Commission objections to the size of a proposed package for the carmaker and paid out extra funds, contending the state stood to lose 23,000 automotive jobs in Mosel and Chemnitz if it didn't pay.
Some 91 million marks ($61.1 million) are in dispute in the row that has worried Bonn by spurring anti-EU sentiment in the country, even from within the ranks of Kohl's conservatives.
Bonn accepts Saxony's arguments that the payouts are justified, but believes the state went too far by defying the order from Brussels, an economics ministry spokeswoman said.
"Mr Van Miert is concerned about the tone of the public debate," van der Pas said.
Van Miert warned at the weekend that Saxony could touch off a "subsidy war" in Europe if left unchallenged, telling Germany's Focus magazine Brussels could raise the stakes by blocking other aid to VW or excluding it from public tenders.
Zions First National Bank said Tuesday it won $15 million Richardson, Texas, tax and revenue anticipation notes at a net interest cost of 3.882 percent.
The notes were priced with a coupon of 4.5 percent and not reoffered. The notes were dated 9/3/1996 and due 8/29/1997.
NOTE: Q1 1996 net includes loss on write-down of investment in distribution co of $238.7 million, or $15.13/shr.
Q1 1996 net from continuing operations was loss $2.14 vs profit $0.07.
Q1 sales for distribution company were $1.4 bln vs $1.3 bln.
Sales figures in table are for continuing operations of FoxMeyer Health Corp.
General Motors Corp's Oldsmobile division is scaling back the dealerships it plans to close to 746, about half the number it had targeted early this year, USA Today reported on Tuesday.
According to an internal document obtained by the newspaper, Oldsmobile told top dealers last month it would like to shut 746, or 25 percent, of its showrooms, leaving 2,236.
Reports in January said Oldsmobile wanted to close 1,400 dealerships.
An Oldsmobile spokeskman said the division was not anxious to slice deeper than 25 percent because it needs the dealerships to sell a wave of products planned the next year, including a new Cutlass sedan and Intrigue midsize car.
The memo said Oldsmobile hoped to close 190 of 537 dealerships in major cities and suburban markets with more than one Oldsmobile showroom.
Oldsmobile is targeting 556 of 2,445 showrooms in small towns and midsize cities with one Oldsmobile dealer each.
A key panel of California state lawmakers has backed a proposal to change local property tax allocations to benefit the state's cash-strapped local governments, officials said on Tuesday.
Legislation, authored by state Senator William Craven, a Republican from Oceanside, would allow California counties, cities and special districts to retain certain funds that would otherwise be shifted to schools and community colleges.
The legislation was supported by the California State Association of Counties and several California cities.
To implement the 1992-1993 and 1993-1994 state budgets, the state Legislature shifted $3.6 billion in property tax revenues from local governments to schools by creating an Educational Revenue Augmentation Fund (ERAF) in each county.
Local officials have long objected to their annual property tax shifts, arguing it deprives them of discretionary revenues that could fund development and local programs.
Under Craven's proposal, the growth attributable to ERAF shifts would be retained by counties, cities and special districts. Local governments in the state would retain about $150 million in 1997-1998 under the legislation.
"It's time to assist the counties," Johnson said.
The California State Association of Counties strongly supported the measure, Dan Wall, a lobbyist for the group, said. "I think it's a responsible first step," Wall said.
Of the $3.6 billion shifted from local governments to the state in 1992-1993 and 1993-1994, counties lost an estimated $2.6 billion, Wall said.
"Ultimately, we wish to get that money back, but we have to recognize the fiscal realities for the state," Wall said.
Gateway 2000 Inc said on Tuesday that it would make a "major announcement" about new distribution plans at a press conference here this morning at 1030 EDT/1430 GMT.
Gateway's Destination brand PC-TV is closely watched by analysts as a test of the emerging category of Internet-connected living room consumer electronics.
Gateway said distribution partners and Gateway customers would attend.
The Chicago Board of Trade reported the following stocks of wheat in Chicago, deliverable against CBOT futures. (in 000's bu).
Arizona joined a growing list of states and municipalities seeking damages from the tobacco industry Tuesday when it filed a lawsuit against some of the world's biggest tobacco companies.
Arizona Attorney General Grant Woods said the state is seeking more than $300 million in damages related to costs Arizona incurred by providing health-care benefits to indigent residents with alleged tobacco-related illnesses.
The suit also alleges the companies violated antitrust, consumer fraud and fair trade practices.
In addition to monetary damages, the suit asks the court to prohibit the companies from targeting children in their advertising, promotion and sales.
Woods alledged tobacco products kill an estimated 5,000 Arizona residents a year.
The suit names RJR Nabisco Holdings Corp's RJR Reynolds Tobacco Co., B.A.T. Industries Plc's Brown & Williamson Tobacco Corp. and The American Tobacco Co., Phillip Morris Co, Brooke Group Ltd's Ligget Group Inc., Loews Corp's Lorillard Tobacco Co Inc., United States Tobacco Co., Hill & Knowlton Inc, the Council for Tobacco Research-U.S.A., and the Tobacco Institute Inc.
"It is time to hold the tobacco companies responsible for the misery they have caused the citizens of the state of Arizona," Woods said. "It's time the tobacco industry pays for the state's health care losses and stops aiming their ads at our children."
Earlier, Kansas filed a lawsuit against six major tobacco companies to recover Medicaid costs for smoking-related illnesses. Arizona became the 12th state to file suit.
Polish shares rose for the fourth day running in higher turnover on Tuesday but analysts were uncertain whether slightly better July company earnings would help sustain the rally.
They said the day's session offered mixed signals as stronger selling after price fixing indicated a fall but higher turnover showed new investors joined the fray.
"A fall seems more likely tomorrow but a rise is also possible because high turnover after price fixing showed there are new players," said Pawel Tarnowski, an analyst at Raiffeisen Capital & Investment.
The main market's all-share WIG index rose 1.6 percent to 13,183.8 points and turnover rose 22 percent to 132 million zlotys ($48.2 million) on both markets. Gainers led losers by 43 to 23 with 11 stocks stable.
Analysts said July company earnings, which were released by Monday, looked generally better than disappointing first half results and should be well received by the market, but were unlikely to spur significant growth in the next few sessions.
They said said top gainer PPABank, which rose by the daily maximum 10 percent, was helped by a buy recommendation from Nomura Equity Research and strong July earnings.
Analysts said companies which showed the biggest earnings improvement last month were also among Tuesday's top performers but expected the impact of July results to wear off quickly.
No stocks traded in Warsaw bourse continuous trade.
Mass privatisation NFI units, which fell 1.1 percent in the main market session to 92 zlotys in seven million zloty trade, held flat at 92 zlotys in continuous trade.
On the eve of the new Dutch soccer season, Ajax Amsterdam, European champions in 1995 and runners-up in 1996, are looking out of sorts.
In their last five pre-season games the Dutch champions have conceded 16 goals without themselves finding the net once.
Racked by injury and bedevilled by waning confidence, the world club champions look a pale shadow of the side that in recent years has rivalled Blackbeard the pirate in capturing silverware.
The latest setback, Sunday's 3-0 defeat by a strong, fluent PSV Eindhoven in the Johan Cruyff Shield, the traditional season curtain-raiser, exposed alarming deficiencies in an Ajax machine that is used to sweeping all before it.
Coming hard on the heels of drubbings by AC Milan, Juventus and Spain's Deportivo La Coruna, as well as defeat against Ruud Gullit's Chelsea, the extent of PSV's superiority in all departments will worry Ajax coach Louis van Gaal.
PSV, European champions in 1988 and now led by former Dutch coach Dick Advocaat, have fired a serious warning at Ajax -- it was their first win in Amsterdam for almost four years -- and they look a good bet to usurp the Dutch crown.
But it would be unwise to write off Ajax, bidding for their fourth consecutive Dutch title and 27th in total, before the season kicks off in earnest.
Van Gaal sees no reason to panic, preferring to blame a lengthy list of players injured or recovering, including internationals Marc Overmars, Patrick Kluivert, Winston Bogarde and Peter Hoekstra.
Defections, not helped by the Bosman ruling which made stars like Edgar Davids and Michael Reiziger give-away bargains for AC Milan, have also forced Van Gaal to chop, change and improvise his line-up.
"I have to protect the players from themselves. Many of them just aren't yet fit enough for big games. Only the Boer brothers (Frank and Ronald) and (Edwin) van der Saar are really fit."
"I can't really change anything. Some players need time to get into a rhythm. We usually use the pre-season to get the team to build up a head of steam, but we'll have to make the most of the next games just to limit the damage," Van Gaal said.
Dutch media have also speculated that Ajax's move to a new home, the towering multi-billion dollar Arena, has eroded the club's previous air of invincibility at the cramped de Meer stadium.
"The recent defeats hurt, they have damaged our confidence and will have given other opponents heart," Van Gaal said.
"Other teams will have been watching and will come here with more confidence. At the Meer we built up a fearsome reputation which we don't yet have at the Arena. We're going to have to work on that."
Van Gaal insists he has bought wisely over the summer, replacing Davids and Reiziger, as well as the Nigerian pair Finidi George and Nwankwo Kanu.
But Richard Witschge, who caught the eye during the European championships, is no Davids. His languid style, deft touch and superb passing will help when Ajax go forward. But Davids's strength was as ball-winner when the team were under pressure.
Mariano Juan, the young Argentine who cannot yet communicate with his team mates, is no replacement for Bogarde, another who emerged from Dutch disappointment at Euro 96 with his reputation enhanced, while Kluivert's slow recuperation may force Van Gaal to shop around for a stand-in goalscorer.
Babangida, signed from Roda to replace his fellow countryman Finidi, has looked sluggish, while both Peter Hoekstra and Finn Jari Litmanen are struggling to find form and confidence.
PSV's emergence from a summer of canny buying as serious title contenders has whetted the appetite of Dutch soccer fans and may spell an end to Ajax's recent hegemony.
The champions begin the defence of their title against NAC of Breda on Wednesday.
Two new lawsuits against tobacco companies helped drive options activity in Philip Morris Cos Inc on the American Stock Exchange, traders said on Tuesday.
Despite the new lawsuits, Philip Morris shares were ahead 1-1/4 at 91-1/8 in afternoon trading.
Schwarz said activity in Philip Morris and RJR Nabisco options included protective put buying, speculative call buying and call selling.
"Everybody has a different opinion" on the outcome of the various lawsuits, and players were developing their options strategies based on their expectations, Schwarz said.
Other active Philip Morris puts included the September 90, with nearly 1,400 contracts traded, the September 85 with about 500 and the December 85 with nearly 400.
Among the calls, the September 90 and 100 each traded more than 1,000 contracts and the September 95 traded nearly 1,000.
Activity was relatively heavy right through the January 1997 series, with the January 90 call trading more than 400 contracts and the corresponding put trading about 260. The March 1997 100 call traded about 125 contracts.
In other trading, investors were actively buying puts on shares of Cyrix Corp.
On the CBOE, the Cyrix September 15 put traded 533 contracts and the September 12-1/2 traded 314. The same two options traded 425 and 220 contracts, respectively, on the American Stock Exchange.
On the Pacific Stock Exchange, the Cyrix September 15 put traded 260 contracts and the September 12-1/2 traded 105. Call volume on Cyrix was minimal.
Call options on shares of healthcare information company Medaphis Corp remained relatively active, nearly a week after the stock lost 60 percent of its value.
Combined volume was 753 on the Medaphis September 15 call, 150 on the September 12-1/2 and 190 on the September 20 call.
Put volume was nominal.
The following were the most active equity option calls and puts on the Philadelphia Stock Exchange Tuesday.
Note: c represents call.
Note: p represents put.
-- New York Newsdesk 212-859-1610.
These are the leading stories in the Sarajevo press on Tuesday. Reuters has not verified these stories and does not vouch for their accuracy.
- In undertaking Operation "Volcano" to destroy contraband Bosnian Serb ammunition, new NATO commander Admiral Joseph Lopez seems more decisive than did his predecesor Admiral Leighton Smith, says front-page commentary.
- Bosnia's federation Vice-President Ejup Ganic holds talks with Slovenia's Milan Kucan in Ljubljana on Slovenian government's recent decision to requre Bosnian citizens to obtain visas. Ganic demands the visa requirement be lifted, arguing it damages economic ties between the two countries.
- Bosnian dinar shortage temporarily solved with additional bank notes recently printed. Cash withrawals no longer take two weeks, says director of Bosnia's Bureau of Accounts, Husref Gazibegovic.
--Sarajevo newsroom, +387-71-663-864.
NOTE - The group said it continued to pursue its goal of consistently achieving comprehensive levels of international competitiveness in all its business units and anticipates achieving a further increase in earnings for the financial year to June 30.
Unidanmark A/S, Denmark's second biggest banking group, posted better than expected first-half results Tuesday but said it foresaw slowing profits growth for the rest of the year.
"A slightly lower rate of growth is anticipated in the Danish economy for 1996 compared with the previous year, although continuing an upward trend throughout the year," Unidanmark said in a statement.
"Operating profit in the second half of 1996 is projected to be lower than for the first half of the year," it said.
Unidanmark announced a 1.275 billion crown ($221.5 million) pre-tax profit for the first half of the year, boosted by improved earnings from net interest, fees and lending. It earned 1.077 billion ($187.1 million) in the same period last year.
The bank attributed its advance to a 2.6 percent increase in net interest and fee income, lower losses and bad debt provisions, stable expenses and bigger extraordinary income.
Mortgage lending rose by nearly 30 percent and bank lending rose 7.4 percent, Unidanmark said.
Unidanmark was the second of Denmark's top banks to announce half-year results. On Monday BG Bank, the third biggest, posted a better-than-expected 821 million crown ($142.6 million) pre-tax profit, up from 738 million crowns ($128.2 million).
Denmark's biggest bank, Den Danske Bank, is to release its interim results Thursday.
Fleet Securities said Tuesday it released the following final pricing on Utica, N.Y.'s $24.5 million private placement, with the top yield at 8.25 percent in 2019.
CITY OF UTICA RE: $24,520,000* ONEIDA COUNTY, NEW YORK PRIVATE PLACEMENT VERBAL AWARD RECEIVED.
Strong overseas demand for sporting goods group Amer and telecoms group Nokia's rise propelled the Finnish bourse to a 10-month high close on Tuesday.
The HEX all-share index rose 15 points or 0.7 percent to 2,101.2 -- the highest since October 19 last year. Turnover was a moderately lively 310 million markka with Amer grabbing a 16 percent slice and Nokia accounting for 14 percent.
Firm domestic government bonds also supported the stock market, brokers said.
The outlook was optimistic but cautious ahead of the outcome later on Tuesday of the United States Federal Reserve's (central bank) policy-setting meeting, they said.
Amer closed 8.70 markka higher at 108.90 after hitting a 21-month high 109.00 markka, up over eight percent, on strong overseas demand. Brokers could not give any clear reason for the advance.
Nokia closed 2.40 markka up at 180.10 helped by gains in its Swedish competitor Ericsson, brokers said. Paper machine maker Valmet also rose in lively trade boosted by improved third quarter profits for its competitor Harnischfeger. Valmet rose one markka to 73.20.
Non-resident holders of Italian certificates of deposit will no longer be subject to a withholding tax from January 1 1997, Milan financial daily Il Sole 24 Ore reported on Tuesday.
Following a recent shake-up of taxes on investment income, certificates of deposit held by Italian residents are now taxed at a rate of 27 percent.
Italy announced earlier this year that the withholding tax for non-residents would be abolished from the beginning of next year on Italian government bonds, including treasury bills (BOTs), certificates (CCTs) and BTPs.
Swiss inveastors will not be eligible for the tax exemption for legal reasons.
French Prime Minister Alain Juppe cut short his summer holiday on Tuesday to return to Paris where his government faces problems including a widening political wrangle over a hunger strike by African immigrants.
Juppe, who is due to visit President Jacques Chirac at his holiday retreat in Bregancon on the French Riviera at the weekend to outline strategy, returned from the Landes district of southwestern France, officials said.
The conservative premier had been expected to return to Paris later this week but had left his official schedule vague, they said.
Juppe has already intervened twice during his holidays -- once on August 14 to help prop up the franc and again on August 17 to try to head off threats of labour unrest in the autumn.
His most pressing concerns include a 47-day hunger strike by 10 of about 300 African protesters at a Paris church.
The protest has divided the centre-right coalition, with some senior politicians on Tuesday urging the government to lift expulsion orders hanging over some of them.
NOTE: Q2 96 includes $0.04/shr charge from early retirement of debt.
GrandMet will make a presentation to analysts and institutional investors on its U.S. packaged food subsidiary Pillsbury on Wednesday, a company spokesman said.
"Pillsbury chief executive Paul Walsh will outline the development of the company over the last year and provide an overview of strategy as well as general trends," he said.
Three other Pillsbury executives will cover marketing, brand development and operations.
The presentation is themed "Winning in the marketplace through sustainable growth." It will be held at the The Brewery, Chiswell Street, in the City of London, from 1000 GMT.
GrandMet shares were trading 7p higher Tuesday morning at 467p ahead of the presentation.
World chess champion Garry Kasparov will play IBM's supercomputer Deep Blue next year in a $1.1 million re-match of last February's historic contest, IBM said on Tuesday.
An IBM spokeswoman said the six-game match would be played at the Millennium hotel in New York on May 3-10, with $700,000 going to the winner and $400,000 to the loser.
In Philadelphia last February, the powerful machine -- capable of looking at 200 million possible moves per second -- created chess history when it became the first computer program to defeat a grandmaster in classical chess format, in which games can last several hours.
Kasparov recovered from the first game defeat and eventually won the contest and $400,000 with three wins and two draws in the remaining games. The IBM team of scientists and programmers were awarded $100,000.
The Philadelphia match, part of the 50th anniversary celebrations of the Association of Computing and Machinery, drew hundreds of spectators and an estimated one million "hits" on a website retrieved by fans all over the world.
"The first match was to test the Deep Blue technology," said C.J. Tan, manager of the IBM team. "Scientifically, our experiment was extremely successful. We learned a lot from dueling Kasparov. We have now refined our technology and are in the process of strengthening our game."
IBM's purpose in the first match was to test parallel computing systems intended for use in such diverse areas as the manufacture of new drugs for the pharmaceutical industry and air traffic control.
Kasparov, who characterized the match as a battle between human intuition and the brute force of a huge calculating machine, said he welcomed the prospect of a re-match.
"I look forward to taking on IBM's new and more powerful machine and hope to prove that human knowledge, intuition, creativity and imagination can overcome the incredible capacity of the new machine," Kasparov said in a statement.
IBM spokeswoman Marcy Holle said spectators in New York could watch the games on screens in the Hudson Theater adjoining the hotel. Kasparov, 33, has previously played in the theater. In 1990, the first half of his world championship match against fellow Russian grandmaster and arch-rival Anatoly Karpov took place there.
But Kasparov broke ties with the International Chess Federation, known by its French acronym FIDE, in 1993 to form the Professional Chess Association (PCA). He successfully defended his PCA title in New York in October 1995 against Indian challenger Viswanathan Anand.
The chess world was split between Kasparov as champion of the PCA and Karpov, who retained his FIDE crown in June when he defeated Russian-born U.S. grandmaster Gata Kamsky in a match held in the former Soviet republic of Kalmykia.
Physical electricity prices for next-day delivery in the western U.S. were firm Tuesday, but power for deferred month deliveries were traded mostly lower, brokers and marketers said.
Next-day prices were bolstered by Bonneville Power Administration raising its posting for 16-hour power blocks for Wednesday delivery by two dollars to $17.50 per megawatt hour (MWh), market sources said.
Deferred month values were weaker amid a second-day of active selling, they said. "People are seeing these outer months are well overvalued," said a Houston trader.
A substantial decline in the natural gas market also pressured electricity prices lower, traders said.
NYMEX September Gulf Coast natgas futures were in the $2.060 area, off more than 12 cents per million British thermal units.
In the physical market, California-Oregon Border (COB) prices for firm, peak delivery were quoted at $16.00-$17.00 per MWh, up from Monday's $15.00-$16.00, market sources said.
September COB power for firm, peak delivery was assessed at $17.10-$17.90, up from Monday's $17.00-$17.40 range.
October COB, with similar delivery terms, was pegged at $15.50-$15.90, down from $15.75-$16.60 on Monday. Firm, peak COB for the 1996 fourth-quarter was valued at $16.90-$17.25, flat from Monday.
At the Mid-Columbia (Mid-C) point in Washington, firm, peak electricity prices for next-day delivery were quoted at $15.00-$15.50 per MWh, up from Monday's $14.50-$15.50.
September Mid-C electricity was pegged at $16.50-$17.10, down slightly from Monday's $16.50-$17.20.
Down at the Palo Verde (PV) switchyard near Phoenix, Ariz., next-day power for peak, firm delivery was valued at $21.00-$22.00 per MWh, near unchanged from Monday's range.
September firm, peak PV electricity was quoted at $20.75-$21.25, flat from Monday.
October PV electricity, with similary delivery terms, was assessed at $15.90-$16.10. Fourth-quarter PV prices was quoted at $16.30-$16.70, down from Monday's $16.90-$17.25 range.
Pacific Gas & Electric Co continued to hold power output from its 2,160 MW Diablo Canyon nuclear power facility at 75 percent of capacity because of a nearby wildfire in the Los Padres national forest.
NOTE - Distilleries is Sri Lanka's largest producer and seller of alcohol.
NASHVILLE, Tenn, Aug 20, (Reuter) Shoney's Inc on Monday reported its third-quarter results, showing same store sales increased 0.5 percent after menu prices were increased by 2.1 percent during the quarter.
Shoney's Chairman and Chief Executive Stephen Lynn called the restaurant chain's results "not yet at an acceptable level" and "less than desired." He attributed the sales results to "a difficult sales environment throughout the industry in May and June."
For the first 40 weeks of the fiscal year, Shoney's comparable store sales decreased by 0.3 percent, including a 1.7 percent increase in menu prices.
Lynn said the outlook is promising, saying that the trend of same store sales improved in the last six weeks of the quarter and that the trend has continued into the first weeks of the fourth quarter.
Private firms located in Sao Paulo state laid off 5,131 employees between August 5 and August 10, a spokesman for the Sao Paulo State Industries Federation (Fiesp) said.
In the previous week, Sao Paulo's industries fired 6,297 workers.
So far this year, Sao Paulo industries have laid off 121,017 workers or 5.61 percent of the Sao Paulo's industrial workforce, the spokesman said.
In the last 12 months, Sao Paulo firms have fired 275,213 workers, or 11.91 percent of Sao Paulo's industrial workforce, he added.
-- Romina Nicaretta, Sao Paulo newsroom, 55-11-2324411.
NYMEX crude and refined products futures closed lower on profit-taking Tuesday, amid expectations the latest weekly inventory report by the American Petroleum Institute would be disappointing for the gasoline market.
September unleaded closed down a steep 1.26 cents a gallon at 64.01 cents.
"In the last six weeks gasoline data has been disappointing with comparatively very little decline," said Nauman Barakat, a trader with Prudential.
Expectations proved accurate as API showed U.S. gasoline stocks off 864,000 billion barrels for the week ended August 16. A Reuters survey showed the average forecast for a draw of about 1.66 million barrels for unleaded.
Heating oil, however, is being watched more closely as a tight supply picture has fueled a sharp rally in the distillate. Distillate stocks rose 1.83 million barrels compared to Reuters' survey estimate of a 1.13 million barrel rise.
"So far its just some well-deserved profit-taking," said Peter Beutel, an analyst with Cameron Hanover, of the decline in the energy complex overall.
September crude oil fell 0.40 cents to $22.86 a barrel in its final NYMEX session while traders rolled over positions into the October contract which posted a similar drop of 0.36 cents. October closed at $22.11 a barrel.
Traders cited the the stable crude intermonth spread as bullish.
"Tommorow there will be a bounce," said a trader of the energy complex generally.
A Senegalese official said on Tuesday he had resigned from the committee overseeing privatisation of state telecommunications company SONATEL in protest at what he said were irregularities in the process.
"At a meeting last week, to my great surprise I learned that the tender document had already been circulated to interested investors without prior validation by the privatisation committee," Cheikh Tidiane Ndiongue, managing director for the study and control of telecommunications, told reporters.
"I resigned from the SONATEL privatisation committee because of a serious crisis of conscience over the values of honesty, integrity and the principle of transparency in which I believe."
Ndiongue said it was not the first time he had experienced irregularities.
Government officials were not immediately available for comment on the resignation.
The government announced in May that it planned to privatise SONATEL by selling 66 percent of its capital to Senegalese and foreign private investors. It said the first step would be to sell a bloc of shares to a strategic partner.
SONATEL has capital of 50 billion CFA francs ($98 million) and an annual turnover of more than 60 billion CFA.
The assets of the central bank of the Baltic state of Estonia dipped in July to 8.21 billion kroons from 8.34 billion kroons the previous month, the bank said on Tuesday in its latest bulletin.
The central bank said its convertible foreign currency assets fell to 7.09 billion kroons from 7.21 billion kroons.
The fall was due to factors which included the sale of foreign currency to banks, repayments to the International Monetary Fund and changes in foreign currency exchange rates.
Notes and coins in circulation fell to 4.67 billion kroons from 4.71 billion kroons.
The central bank said this movement was partly due to the purchase and sale of foreign currency between the central bank and commercial banks.
The bank's capital and reserves fell slightly to 1.196 billion kroons from 1.203 billion kroons, it added.
The Thai cabinet on Tuesday approved a commerce ministry proposal to launch the country's first commodity futures exchange, Deputy Commerce Minister Montri Danpaiboon said.
Montri told reporters he expected Thailand to set up its commodities exchange by mid-1998 and it would probably trade the country's major commodities including rubber, tapioca, rice, sugar cane and shrimps.
"The exchange will help Thailand establish world futures benchmarks for its export commodities," the minister said.
He said a draft legislation on the ministry's commodities exchange plan still needed to be approved by parliament.
Brazilian stocks ended higher in listless, razor-thin trade as a spate of afternoon buying wiped out early losses that had spilled over from Monday's options expiry, broker said.
"The day was mostly trendless, moving sideways, with some buying at the end," one broker said. "Volume was very thin, lower than normal."
Turnover reached a meager 288 million reais, with benchmark Telebras shares and options accounting for 63 percent of total trade.
Brokers said the bolsa was hung-over from Monday's options settlements during most of Tuesday's session, but erased early declines as large local investors swooped in late in the day, snapping up major blue chips.
"The market was at a standstill. To me, it was hung-over from exercising options yesterday," one dealer said. "There was no foreign or local news."
METRO TEL CORP.
These are some of the leading stories in the United Arab Emirates press on Tuesday. Reuters has not verified these stories and does not vouch for their accuracy.
- UAE to hand over to Red Cross the Taliban militia guards overpowered by their Russian hostages during escape by plane to the UAE.
- In the first half, 202,400 tonnes of cargo moved through Dubai Cargo village.
- Abu Dhabi, Dubai, and Al Ain airports to be expanded.
- UAE to adopt new national anthem after it endorsed a permanent federal constitution.
- International call charges from UAE to more than 220 countries to be reduced by 15 percent starting on September 1.
- Ministry of Education to implement ambitious five-year vocational training programme to get more nationals in the private sector work force.
- UAE national received a 5,000 dirhams ($1,362) reward for informing the Business Software Alliance of software piracy.
- Ministries of agriculture and health and Abu Dhabi municipality to curb use of pesticides.
- Huge stocks of unfit food destroyed in Sharjah because of poor storage conditions.
- Sri Lankan embassy to start registering maids' employment contracts to prevent harassment and other difficulties.
U.S. chain store sales fell 0.3 percent in the week ended August 17 from the prior week, according to the seasonally adjusted BTM/Schroders weekly chain store sales index.
Sales for the week were up 5.0 percent on a year-over-year basis, while the month-to-date index rose 0.4 percent from the prior month.
"There did not appear to be any dominant theme governing the current week's sales performance, especially given the mixed performance of various segments of the market."
BTM/Schroders weekly chain store sales index was previously called Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi/Schroder Wertheim weekly chain store sales index.
Melbourne broker J.B. Were and Son has issued a long term buy recommendation for News Corp Ltd preferred stock, saying its current discount to ordinary stock was excessive and should narrow in the long term.
The report, prepared by Were analyst Craig Connelly, argues that the discount should narrow as the market becomes more comfortable with the issue of limited voting securities.
At 12.15 p.m. (0215 GMT), News Corp preferred shares were at A$5.35, a discount of A$1.14 or 17.6 percent to the ordinary stock which was trading at A$6.49. The preferred stock pays a minimum 20 percent premium relative to the ordinary dividend.
News Corp has about 977 million preferred shares on issue compared to 1.967 billion ordinary shares.
The Were report said the discount of the preferred stock to ordinary stock had widened considerably since these proposed transactions were announced due to a view that a diminishing proportion of shareholders had control of a growing assset base.
In the short term, Were said it expected the discount would remain wide until the market factored out stock 'overhang' from New World Communications shareholders, and focused on long term value being created by acqusitions and business development.
The report also said the issue of additional preferred shares would increase the liquidity of this class of security.
"Liquidity appears to be the issue of prime concern in the U.S. where non-voting securities which are more liquid than the ordinary shares begin to trade at a premium," the report said.
Columbia/HCA Healthcare Corp.'s proposed $299.5 million acquisition of most of Blue Cross & Blue Shield of Ohio cleared a hurdle Tuesday when the health insurer's policyholders approved the deal at a special meeting, Blue Cross said.
About 60 protestors outside the meeting outnumbered the 38 who attended it. Most proxies were mailed in advance of the meeting, a Blue Cross spokesman said.
Protestors, carrying signs reading, "Stop the Merger," said they represented retirees, trade union members and others. Blue Cross is currently a not-for-profit entity.
Blue Cross and Columbia have said the acquisition will reduce health care costs and improve care.
"This could be a role model for the entire country," Blue Cross Chairman and Chief Executive Officer John Burry said at the meeting. "This an opportunity to get doctors, hospitals and insurers to work together for the benefit of the patient."
Questions about the deal have been raised by consumer activists, some policyholders, the Ohio attorney general, the national Blue Cross and Blue Shield Association and others.
Last week, Ohio Congressman Sherrod Brown said he asked the Federal Trade Commission to review the proposal.
Brown said he was concerned that the merger could reduce competition and restrain trade. He said he was also concerned that all Blue Cross patients might be treated at hospitals owned by Columbia.
Columbia is the largest U.S. hospital chain, with 349 hospitals, including three in northeast Ohio, Blue Cross's coverage area. Columbia revenues last year were $17.7 billion.
The health insurer has 64,000 policyholders, insures 1.5 million people and generates $2 billion in annual premiums.
Under the joint venture agreement, Columbia will form a new company to acquire most of the insurer's operating businesses.
Blue Cross will continue to operate, providing reinsurance, guaranteeing policies written by the new company and retaining most national accounts. A federal employee programme will be retained by Blue Cross but managed by the new company, Columbia and Blue Cross said.
Note - Apollo Enterprises Ltd said it expects to maintain comparable results in the second-half of 1996.
A cut in German interest rates is overdue, said Ingrid Matthaeus Maier, deputy parliamentary leader of the opposition Social Democrats on Tuesday.
"In view of the nearly four million officially registered unemployed and the anaemic recovery, a cut in interest rates by the Bundesbank is overdue," Maier said in a statement released ahead of Thursday's central bank council meeting.
"Business and consumers are waiting for such a signal."
Stable prices and moderate wage agreements have eliminated any fear of reigniting inflation, and low interest rates should be the reward for wage restraint, she said.
A cut in interest rates would stimulate demand for capital and consumer goods, and benefit German exports as well, she said.
The Bundesbank last cut its discount rate on April 19, to a historic low 2.5 percent. It has kept its main money market rate, the repo rate, fixed at 3.3 percent since February.
Markets widely expect some cut in the repo rate at Thursday's meeting.
While the Federal Reserve's Federal Open Market Committee left interest rates unchanged at its meeting Tuesday, the odds of monetary tightening are likely to mount as 1996 comes to a close, analysts said.
"My guess is (Fed tightening) is going to be right back on tap after the August data start coming out," said Salomon Brothers economist Brian Jones.
In a Reuters poll of 28 economists to be released later on Tuesday, a majority predicted the Fed would move to tighten credit at its November 13 meeting.
Despite signs of strong economic growth since then, inflation remains quite low, and the Fed has refrained from raising rates in the absence of more troubling data.
But upcoming U.S. employment data could change all that, analysts said.
"The job market is still quite firm. We'll need to see jobless claims move back up pretty soon in order to confirm the economic slowdown story," said Josh Feinman, global markets economist at BT Securities Corp.
Jobless claims' four-week moving average reached a seven-year low last week, adding to recent warnings of pending wage inflation.
The absence of faster inflation amid such robust job creation has many analysts scratching their heads and wondering how long the Fed will hold monetary policy steady.
"Strong job growth has persisted long enough that the Fed will certainly have to stand up and take notice," said Gary Schlossberg, senior economist at Wells Fargo Bank.
Critics initially blasted the Fed for failing to tighten credit at its July 2-3 FOMC meeting when a report just two days later showed that 239,000 new jobs were created in June.
But a month later the July report showed a decline to 193,000 in new nonfarm payrolls and, perhaps more important, a slight drop in average hourly earnings.
"So far the Fed has done the right thing by keeping its powder dry," Schlossberg said. "There is still a risk the Fed could fall behind the curve, but right now it looks like the economic slowdown is happening."
The August employment report due September 6 could radically alter the terrain, however.
"People tried to make the July report look weak," Jones added. "But it's not like the July numbers mean we don't have to worry about tightening anymore."
Yet most analysts still believe the economy will decelerate in time to minimize any future inflation bubble, which may allow the Fed to keep the funds rate steady for several more months.
"They may have gotten lucky, but the economy has validated the Fed's strategy of waiting until they see data for the second half of the year," Feinman said.
"They did say the (inflation) risks were to the upside, but that the whole point of their strategy was to wait until they saw how the third quarter was turning out," he added.
Analysts said Fed officials would certainly prefer to postpone any rate hikes until after the November 5 presidential election.
Scheduled negotiated sales total $681 million in 25 offerings for Wednesday, August 21, according to Reuters Municipal Bond Information Group.
The largest issue is a $141 million Jersey City, N.J., bond offering through Merrill Lynch & Co.
Also on tap is a $100 million Duke University commercial paper offering through BT Securities.
Possible sales total $393 million in 3 offerings, including an Intermountain Power Authority $371 million fowards issue through Goldman Sachs & Co.
Former U.S. President Ronald Reagan and his wife Nancy have reluctantly listed their southern California ranch -- known during his presidency as the Western White House -- for sale, an aide said on Monday.
"Sadly, since President Reagan's illness, it hasn't been used," Reagan's spokeswoman, Joanne Drake, said in a brief statement.
Reagan announced in 1994 that he was suffering from Alzheimer's disease, and he and his wife have lived solely in their Los Angeles mansion since then.
Drake said the sale of the Reagans' sprawling ranch near Santa Barbara was being handled by Sotheby International Realty's office in Newport Beach, California. Sotheby spokesman Zachary Wright said the ranch would be listed in all Sotheby International's offices worldwide.
Wright said he was "not at liberty" to say how much the Reagans were asking for the 688-acre (278-hectare) property, which is called Ranch del Cielo. A neighbouring 1,400-acre (566-hectare) ranch was sold at auction for $2.5 million in 1988.
The ranch became a part of history when Reagan designated it the "Western White House" in 1981 shortly after taking office. During the eight years of his presidency he visited the ranch often, once telling a local reporter, "When you get out there, the world is gone."
Reagan prized the privacy that the ranch, set in the rugged Santa Ynez mountains 30 miles (48 km) from Santa Barbara, afforded him.
During the Reagans' visits during his presidency, he ordered that only essential staff stay on the ranch. Generally the only others present were Secret Service agents, the White House physician and the military officer carrying the communications equipment always close at hand in case of nuclear war.
Other aides and the press contingent that followed the president stayed in Santa Barbara.
Reagan would spend time horseback riding the trails on the property that offered spectacular views of the Pacific coastline and the Santa Ynez Valley. He also exercised by chain-sawing fallen oak branches and using a hydraulic device to split logs.
The Reagans shared the ranch with a variety of domestic and wild animals, including deer, ducks, rabbits, dogs and cats, as well as the occasional mountain lion.
Greek Prime Minister Costas Simitis looks set to call early elections on Friday citing as reasons the economy and relations with Turkey, government officials said on Tuesday.
"We expect the announcement on Friday after a special cabinet meeting. All indications at the moment show that the premier will call early elections to take place in late September or early October," one official told Reuters.
Government spokesman Dimitris Reppas reiterated on Tuesday that Simitis will announce his final decision on the matter this week. Elections are now scheduled for October next year.
Simitis, who took over as premier from late socialist party founder Andreas Papandreou in January, scores highly in public opinion polls and would be favourite to win an election against the conservative New Democracy party, which seems disoriented and plagued by internal strife.
This would give him a free hand to implement sweeping reforms in the ailing economy and to find ways to deal with rival Turkey on differences over territorial rights in the Aegean Sea and the divided island of Cyprus.
Simitis and his Finance Minister Alexandros Papadopoulos are in the final stages of putting together next year's budget, which includes cuts of $1.2 billion in state spending and the restructuring of public companies to boost growth.
Papadopoulos has warned that Greece is still a long way from meeting the criteria necessary to join European Monetary Union (EMU) in 1999 and that in the next two years Greeks must make sacrifices to slash inflation and a towering public debt.
Inflation was running at a rate of 8.6 percent year-on-year in June -- the highest by far in the European Union -- and the public debt was still well over 100 per cent of the country's GDP.
The EMU target is for the debt to drop to 60 percent of GDP and inflation to be slashed to about two points above the average inflation of the three best performing EU members.
"The government must take some very tough decisions next year which can't be taken if elections take place as scheduled. Simitis wants four years and needs four years to restructure Greece," the official said.
Greek markets welcomed the possibility of early elections with the Athens general share index rising by 2.30 on Tuesday.
"I am optimistic," said a fund manager at a private investment company. "The bourse discounts the re-election of Simitis, much desired political stability and economic measures to help the country join EMU."
Simitis is also being pressed by the country's top brass to spend about $10 billion on the purchase of new weapons so that Greece is prepared to face any Turkish moves in the Aegean.
This could mean foreign borrowing or extra taxes before the scheduled elections next year, a move that would not go down well with voters.
LME copper edged down in late inter-office trading after losing ground most of the day.
At 1800 GMT, three months copper was indicated at $1,926/29 per tonne compared to a afternoon kerb closing of $1,931.
On Monday copper closed the kerb at $1,942.
After the end of Tuesday's kerb, copper drifted a few dollars higher, but quickly lost heart and slid back.
Analysts said copper was looking weak and may be moving towards a test of the bottom end of its $1,900-1,970 range.
Aluminium and the other metals were little changed.
Turkey's new Islamist prime minister on Tuesday ended a controversial foreign tour that has raised his nation's profile in Asia but put it on a potential collision course with the United States.
Prime Minister Necmettin Erbakan was leaving for home from Indonesia, his fifth stop after visits to Iran, Pakistan, Singapore and Malaysia in his first foreign tour since taking office in June.
All but Singapore are Moslem-majority nations, and the tour represented Turkey's new drive to increase its standing in the Islamic world, aides of the prime minister said.
Turkish MP Hasan Huseyin Ceylan, a member of Erbakan's Welfare Party who was part of his delegation, said Turkey's relations with fellow Islamic nations had deteriorated in recent years as Ankara sought a greater role in Europe, and Erbakan's tour was aimed at shoring up the ties.
"Turkey attaches great importance to promoting its economic, commercial, social and cultural relations with Islamic countries," Erbakan said in an address to the Indonesian Chamber of Commerce on Tuesday.
"Turkey is capable of acting as a bridge between Europe and the Islamic world," he said.
But the West has been wary of ally Turkey's tilt to the East since Erbekan took over as the country's first overtly Islamic leader in over 70 years.
A $23 billion gas supply deal with Iran signed by Erbakan on the first leg of his tour has drawn the ire of the United States and led to calls for sanctions against Turkey.
U.S. State Department spokesman Glynn Davies said "signing this deal is not the kind of signal that we in the West should be sending to what is, in effect, a rogue government".
The deal was struck one week after U.S. President Bill Clinton signed a law to penalise companies investing in energy projects in Iran or Libya.
Turkish officials have said the law does not apply to the project and the United States has said it will study the agreement and the law before it decided on sanctions.
Members of Erbakan's delagation said the deal was necessary to provide Turkey with much needed fuel for electricity and noted that the deal was completed by the pro-West government of previous prime minister Tansu Ciller, who is foreign minister in the new coalition government.
"The demand for gas in just Istanbul is greater than the amount than we get from Russia," said Ceylan. "Turkey needs to buy gas and Iran offered a good price."
Energy Minister Recai Kutan dismissed the possibility that the United States would impose sanctions because of the deal.
"Turkey and the United States have had good relations for over 50 years and this is only one event," he told Reuters. "It just happens to be one time when our benefits do not coincide."
Erbakan's tour also came amid a new outbreak of tension between fellow NATO members Turkey and Greece over the divided island of Cyprus. At least two Greek Cypriots were killed last week during protests in the United Nations-controlled buffer zone against Turkey's 22-year occupation of the island's northern areas.
Greece has warned Turkey that any military advance would lead to war and Erbakan was quick to react.
"If the United States is to impose any sanctions on any country, that has to be imposed on Greece, because it is the Greek Cypriots who have engaged in this provocative action," he said in Malaysia on Sunday.
The source also expressed hope that Japan's own monetary policy would emphasise ensuring that the nation's economic recovery was more firmly on track.
Market speculation last month that the Bank of Japan would soon move to raise interest rates now that Japan's recovery is in motion has faded, and many analysts now say that the central bank is unlikely to change its hyper-accommodative monetary stance in the immediate future.
The National Association of Manufacturers praised the Federal Reserve's decision Tuesday to hold interest rates steady and suggested the central bank consider cutting rates later in 1996 if growth slows sharply.
"We now have stable inflation and real growth running below potential," Association President Jerry Jasinowski said in a statement. "The Federal Reserve should keep rates where they are.
"If the economy slows sharply later in the year, the Fed should consider cutting interest rates," he added.
Portugal's state utility Electricidade de Portugal (EdP) has tendered to buy one 30,000 tonne cargo of heavy fuel oil in August, traders said on Tuesday.
The tender, due to be awarded on Wednesday, was a surprise to some traders who said the company had already awarded six cargoes for August.
The latest tender is for delivery between August 27-30.
The government of Niger has lowered the price of staple millet to fight inflation which rose by 7.8 percent in the first seven months of 1996, compared to five percent for calendar 1995.
A trade ministry statement said on Monday the government had instructed the office which manages buffer stocks to supply a 100 kg (220 lb) sack of millet at 10,000 CFA francs ($19.65) to merchants in the capital, provided their taxes are up to date.
In the past four months, the market price has risen from 8,000 CFA to 15,000 CFA in Niamey and 18,000 CFA in the interior. The statement said local authorities would fix the price for provincial towns.
Price rises are blamed on a 300,000 tonne deficit for the 1995 harvest as well as the rising cost of goods imported from neighbouring Nigeria.
Niger's 40,000 civil servants are owed around five months wage arrears and the state treasury currently has a deficit of 200 billion CFA.
The following are some of the leading stories in Finnish papers this morning.
- Head of Educational Board says regional school controllers should be reinstated after recent report of teachers' violent acts against handicapped children in special schools.
- Those with higher income to benefit most from the tax cuts next year, SAK trade union study shows.
- Level of education helps people earn higher salaries significantly more often than thought earlier, new study says. Men who study one year more may end up earning 15 percent more.
- Charter flights increasingly compete with regular scheduled flights as travel agencies now sell cheap charter flights also without accomodation.
- Finland's 1,000 Lakes rally, part of the world rally championships, likely to jam roads in central Finland -- 400,000 spectators and 100,000 cars expected.
- Police release eagle owl stuck in volley ball net.
- Finland and Russia likely to strike deal on outstanding payments of 400 million markka in Russian debts to about 60 Finnish companies, industrial officials say.
- Price competition between Silja Line and Viking Line is harmful for both, investment bank Kleinwort Benson report says.
- Eutrophication -- excessive seaweed growth -- the biggest threat to the Baltic Sea, already badly eutrophicated in some parts.
- Duck hunting season starts today but small catch expected as water fowl population has decreased 11 percent from last year, reserachers say.
Firms listed on the Warsaw Stock Exchange recorded slightly better July earnings after a weak first half, but analysts said it was too early to tell if there would be an earnings rebound this year.
In July 48 firms on the main and parallel markets showed a real net profit growth year-on-year compared with 34 firms over the first six months.
"July earnings were average, but better than the weak results recorded in May and June, so they're returning to normal rather than worsening," said Pawel Tarnowski, an analyst at Raiffeisen Capital and Investment.
Analysts had attributed this year's long winter to lower profits over the year's first four months.
But they said unspectacular May and June earnings hastened a downward correction that followed the main market's 90- percent rise this year to a 27-month high of 14,282.2 points on July 5.
Analysts had expected one more growth spurt but instead a 14-percent downtrend and then stability followed until last week when investors started buying in hopes of better earnings.
But analysts said many players, especially foreign investors, would need preliminary third-quarter results due in October to be sure profits had taken a bullish turn.
Jacek Dzierwa, Polish equity analyst at Salomon Brothers in London, said better July earnings were a good sign but nothing definite, as Polish auditors were likely to find losses previously overlooked.
"I'm taking those monthly results as an indication, but nothing tangible," Dzierwa said.
Firms showing good results tended to rise on the bourse on Tuesday, such as top gainer PPABank , up by the daily maximum 10 percent.
But analysts said the July results were not likely strong enough to maintain the WIG's recent four-session, six-percent jump to Tuesday's close at 13,183.8 points.
Among individual firms Swarzedz disappointed recording a loss despite improved sales, they said.
They said paint makers Polifarb Wroclaw and especially Polifarb Cieszyn looked particularily strong even though better earnings were expected due to a seasonal surge in sales.
Raiffeisen's Tarnowski said Cieszyn recorded its best monthly result in history.
Turkish police killed two people on Tuesday in an attack on a suspected guerrilla safe house in Istanbul, the state-run Anatolian news agency said.
The two died in an exchange of gunfire with the police in the western Istanbul district of Eyup, the agency reported.
It did not identify the dead. Police in the past have raided houses where they believe Kurdish separatist rebels or leftist guerrillas are sheltered.
In a move which will deal another blow to pay-TV arch rivals Rupert Murdoch and Telstra, Kerry Packer and Optus Vision have pulled struggling pay-TV operator Australis Media from the brink of collapse with a US$250 million refinancing scheme which was accepted by the Australis board yesterday. Page 1.
After losing A$18 million in the August 1990 transaction, Coles Myer and parties involved in the controversial Yannon transaction are finalising a financial settlement, amid suggestions the company may accept as little as A$10 million to resolve the matter. Page 1.
Qantas Airways Ltd managing director James Strong is expected to meet union negotiators tomorrow after the airline and unions reached a make-or-break stage in their long-running negotiations for a new enterprise agreement, with unions pushing the company to guarantee that all employees be entitled to a total of A$1,500 of shares over the next two years. Page 3.
The Australian Refineries Operatives Committee, a national committee of oil refinery union delegates, issued a statement yesterday threatening to escalate an industrial dispute that has halted production at Shell Australia's large Geelong oil refinery. The statement offered "unqualified support" to the striking unionists at the plant. Page 5.
After profit for the six months to June lifted by 12 percent to A$11.56 million, the chief executive of sprawling regional media group Australian Provincial Newspapers Ltd, Cameron O'Reilly, says he is optimistic the group will continue its unbroken record of yealy profit growth intact. Page 15.
In a bid to cut its high-gearing and cement footings for its next stage of growth, contract miner Macmahon Holdings Ltd is expected to release details of a A$30-plus million equity raising next week. Details of a convertible preference share placement and a rights issue are expected next Monday when the company releases its audited 1995/96 results. Page 15.
Business will lose A$2.8 billion in taxpayer assistance over the next four years after the Howard government reduced the top rate for research and development tax concessions from 150 percent to 125 percent for R&D expenditure incurred after 7.30 p.m. yesterday, axed 38 industry and export schemes and abolished manufacturers' bounty payments in the budget. Page 45.
Business representatives endorsed the 1996/97 federal budget yesterday, saying it had laid the groundwork for an improvement in confidence. However, professional investors voiced their disappointment that the budget was not as fiscally stringent as had been expected - staging a selloff of bond and share futures and the dollar last night. Page 45.
Satellite pay-TV operator Australis Media defied the liquidators yesterday when it entered a A$367 million recapitalisation plan led by Kerry Packer's Publishing & Broadcasting Ltd. The deal sees Packer emerging as the driving force behind an "infrastrucure sharing" alliance between Australis and Optus Vision. Page 45.
Federal Treasurer Peter Costello told Parliament yesterday the fiscal rigour of the budget would see business investment grow - forecasts say by as much as A$7 billion, or 14 percent - and improve the interest rate environment. He also predicted the long awaited rebound in housing would begin this year. Page 45.
Amid widespread pessimism in the business community about its future prospects as the main profit reporting season gets underway, Treasurer Peter Costello is counting on a A$7 billion business investment surge this financial year to help alleviate his A$8 billion deficit black hole. Page 47.
The decision to introduce retirement savings accounts without trustee banking as part of yesterday's budget superannuation measures will mean fund managers and trustee companies face stiff competition from banks, credit unions and life ofices in the battle for superannuation savings. Page 47.
While the announced decision to cut the budget deficit by A$4 billion in the 1996/97 financial year was welcomed by many in the financial sector, concerns still exist about the deficit, stronger than expected growth in the first half of the year and the predicted jump in wages by five percent. The Australian dollar, bonds and the sharemarket futures fell last night after the budget postponed a second interest cut in 1996. Page 25.
Simsmetal managing director John Crabb and others like David Buckingham, executive director of the Minerals Council of Australia, have voiced their concerns on the budget, stating that it lacked strategic direction and was still spending and taxing beyond Australia's ability. Page 25.
Satellite pay TV group Australis Media yesterday struck a last minute survival deal with a consortium of investors that included Optus Vision and Kerry Packer's Publishing and Broadcasting. The proposal now has to go before Australis' U.S. junk bond holder to secure its recovery. Page 25.
Australian Provincial Newspapers lifted its net profit from A$10.3 million to A$11.6 million in the June half year. APN still found the going tough in the bush, provincial Queensland and in specialist publishing, but was boasting sales with it radio network and Buspak advertising schemes. Page 27.
A fatal accident at Northparkes mine has called into question the mine's ongoing financial viability and its uphill battle to get the mine to a sustainable level of operations. Stephen Shorrock, 43, who was killed in a rock slide was an experienced contract miner. Page 27.
ANZ Bank will be Australia's first dual user of the international automated teller machines operated by Visa and MasterCard International. An announcement will come next week confirming ANZ's adoption of the Visa Plus system. Page 27.
Views were mixed today in the financial world on how the markets would react to the new budget, with ANZ Securities' chief economist Phil Graham, stating the outlook for the sharemarket was "pretty neutral". Page C1.
The business community is standing firm behind the budget saying it will provide stimulus to consumer spending and will provide a good environment for increased business investment with hope for relaxed interest rates in months ahead. Page C1.
Concerns were voiced by small business over cuts to business assistance programmes in last night's budget. However, the overall view from small business was that the budget outcomes were generally positive, especially in relation to the two specific reforms to capital gains tax law. Page C1.
In the early hours of yesterday Australis Media accepted a rescue package from a consortium of investors that included rival pay TV operator Optus Vision. With the A$134 million of fresh equity injected into the debt-laden Australis it is hoped a strong resurgence will follow. Page C3.
Woolworths intends to put added emphasis on its specialty stores, such as Dick Smith Electronics, in an attempt to further strengthen its non-food operational base. Page C3.
Visa International will have confirmation next week of securing ANZ as Australia's first bank to be a dual user of the international teller machine brands operated by Visa and MasterCard International. Page C3.
Following are some of the main factors affecting Indian stock markets on Tuesday morning.
Electronic Manufacturing Services Group said Tuesday it intends to acquire Hybrid-Tek Inc, a private company based in Clarksburg, N.J.
As part of the agreement, EMSG will purchase all of Hybrid-Tek's common stock, and will pay Hybrid-Tek's shareholders cash and EMSG stock at the closing.
Hybrid-Tek's existing management has agreed to remain in place for the next year. It will continue to operate out of its current location and under the same name.
The final terms and conditions are subject to approval by EMSG's board.
Chilean servicemen with five helicopters on Tuesday began arms inspections in Iraq for the the United Nations Special Commission (UNSCOM) in charge of disarming Iraq, a spokesman for the commission said.
The Chilean helicopters arrived in Baghdad last Thursday together with 41 Chilean servicemen. They are to support UNSCOM's and the International Atomic Energy Agancy's work, "transporting inspectors and equipment as well as providing a platform for aerial inspection work," the  said.
They took over from a German helicopter team which started its work in Iraq in 1991.
A clean bill of health from UNSCOM is key to lifting a ban on Iraqi oil exports, part of sanctions imposed on Iraq by the U.N. for invading Kuwait in 1990 and occupying it for seven months.
The Sydney Futures Exchange (SFE) will remain open late on Tuesday for the 1996/97 (July/June) Federal budget to be released at 7.30 p.m. (0930 GMT).
The SFE said the trading floor will open between 7.00 p.m. (0900 GMT) and 8.15 p.m. (1015 GMT).
SFE said following the close of its budget trading session, its overnight screen dealing system, SYCOM, will start trading at 8.30 p.m. (1030 GMT) and continue to 6.00 a.m. (2000 GMT).
Security Capital Industrial Trust said on Tuesday it has commenced a rights offering for shareholders to buy 6,787,806 common shares at a price of $17.25 per share.
Security Capital's shareholders of record on August 30, 1996, will receive a dividend of one right for each share held, the company said.
Twelve rights will be required to purchase one Security Capital share for $17.25 in the rights offering, which expires on September 24, 1996, the company said. As of the end of the company's second quarter, the company had approximately 80 million shares outstanding.
Proceeds of the offering will be used to repay borrowings under Security Capital's $350 million unsecured revolving line of bank credit and to invest in additional distribution properties in its target markets.
Security Capital Group Inc, Security Capital's principal shareholder and the owner of the real estate investment trust manager, has agreed to exercise in full its rights and may seek to buy additional shares, the company said.
The Bank of Portugal offered to inject 10 billion escudos of six-day funds into the money market in a variable rate securities repurchase tender.
The central bank also offered to drain liquidity today with six-day certificates at a fixed rate of 6.80 percent. Its emergency lending rate for up to 100 billion escudos of one-day funds to resident banks was unchanged at 9.00 percent.
Bids for the repo funds must be submitted by 0900 GMT and bids for the certificates by 1400 GMT.
South Africa's Department of Finance said on Tuesday that it had appointed Merrill Lynch & Co as lead manager of the government's planned debut Yankee bond issue.
Market conditions would determine the terms and conditions as well as the timing of the transaction "which will form part of the government's initiative to establish international capital market benchmarks and broaden the country's investor base," the department said in a statement.
It said the transaction represented part of the government's budgeted amount of 2.5 billion rand in foreign financing for the 1996/97 financial year.
Lebanon's economic activity stagnated due to a 17-day Israeli blitz in April that caused $300 million in damages, a leading Beirut bank said on Tuesday.
"Aggregate economic activity was remarkably hit by a new Israeli aggression against Lebanon during April that resulted in a greater degree of stagnation," Fransabank said in its economic report for the second quarter of 1996.
"Based on some of these unfavorable economic conditions, several domestic and foreign experts estimate Lebanon's growth rate to run at nearly 3-4 percent this year, i.e. half of its 1995 level," the bank added.
The bank said the economic slowdown was also the result of poor performance in some influential sectors and slower capital inflows accompanied by an upsurge in public debt that curtailed the private sector's ability to acquire investment funds.
It said the April 11-27 operation caused $300 million in damages to infrastructure like electricity, telecommunications, water and road networks, and to agricultural, industrial and trade enterprises along with housing and commercial units.
Another leading bank, Banque Audi, had estimated damages at $400 million to $500 million in the attack, in which 200 people, mainly civilians, were killed. Israel launched its "Operation Grapes of Wrath" operation to end Katyusha rocket attacks by Hizbollah guerrillas on northern Israel.
Fransabank said that private sector initiative, coupled with wise monetary and financial policies, "could initiate a potential turn in economic prospects and lessen the sluggishness during the second half of 1996."
The military attack on southern Lebanon occured when the country had succeeded in transforming its market into a competitive regional centre by attracting international financial and banking institutions and entering international markets via Eurobond issues, it said.
"This aggression, coupled by uncertain peace negotiations in the Middle East, has influenced to a large extent the current planned huge investments in the touristic sector, nearly $500 million, resulting perhaps in some delay," Fransabank said.
The report said that public debt rose 8.2 percent in the second quarter to $8.4 billion, of which $7 billion was internal debt and $1.4 billion was external debt. It said part of the increase in external debt was due to a $100-million Eurobond issue in May.
The rise in public debt was largely due to growth in the budget deficit and the interest payments on public borrowing.
The report said despite the adverse consequences of the Israeli operation, monetary stability continued to prevail over the period, when monetary authorities maintained twin policies of exchange rate stabilisation and relatively tight monetary policy.
The pound improved in value to 1,571 to the U.S. dollar at the end of June from 1,583.5 at the end of March, it added.
The bank said the trade balance recorded a deficit of $1.5 billion in the second quarter but capital inflows offset the deficit and led to a second quarter balance of payments surplus of $7.8 million compared with a surplus of $29 million in the first quarter.
Striving to cut record 12.5 percent unemployment, France's centre-right government has enacted legislation designed to spur companies to reduce working hours and hire more staff.
But economists doubt the move to shorten the working week -- last reduced to 39 hours from 40 hours in 1982 -- will have much impact on unemployment in the face of sluggish economic growth and labour market inflexiblity.
Economists suggest the measure is more a window-dressing attempt by the government to show voters it is taking some action to cut unemployment -- especially in light of President Jacques Chirac's pledge when running for office last year to make "jobs, jobs, jobs" his priority.
"Unemployment is a key political challenge for the government," said a French economist who did not wish to be named. "Chirac said he wanted to be judged on his jobs record and in the past year things haven't improved."
In fact, with the prospect of more layoffs ahead as a result of the government's austerity programme to meet deficit targets aimed at qualifying for a single European currency due to start in 1999, the situation may get worse before it gets better.
So far, economists say, the government has shown no taste for taking steps they say are really needed to cut unemployment -- loosening rigid labour policies that make hiring expensive and firing tough, allowing the minimum wage to fall in real value and significantly scaling back generous welfare schemes.
"Most French unemployment is structural so to reduce it you need to have structural reforms of the labour market," said Jean-Francois Mercier of Salomon Brothers in London.
The new legislation, which came into effect last Thursday, was the result of a series of negotations between the government, unions and employers.
It says that companies which cut working hours by 15 percent and hire the same proportion of new staff will pay up to 50 percent lower social security contributions for the first year and 40 percent less for the succeeding six years.
"I think it (the law's effect) will be pretty marginal," said Gwyn Hacche, chief European economist at James Capel.
"It may add a small amount to employment but (lowering unemployment) is much more dependent on the level of demand in the economy and the latest indicators suggest the recovery is somewhat in limbo."
The law also allows employers to reduce working hours to avoid layoffs, a provision which economists say may be more useful -- at least in helping stem a rise in jobless.
France's largest union, the CFDT, which has led the drive for a shorter working week, would like to see tougher action by the government.
"Decision-makers continue to think unemployment will be solved by the classic means of growth, consumption and investment," said CFDT head Nicole Notat, who is pushing for a "massive" reduction in the work week to as low as 32 hours.
Economists say a shorter work week without a corresponding increase in productivity would actually increase unemployment by driving up the cost of goods.
The government has chosen to leave it up to unions and business to work out "voluntary agreements" on working hours.
But progress has been slow and the French employers' federation, the CNPF, is sceptical that shorter working hours are a remedy for unemployment.
"You only have to look around at our neighbours in Europe to see that those countries with the lowest unemployment have the longest working hours," said one senior CNPF official.
In Britain, for instance, there is no ceiling on the work week and unemployment is much lower at 7.6 percent.
Britain's lower jobless rate is "the result mainly of the (free) labour market policies pursued by former conservative prime minister Mrs (Margaret) Thatcher in 1980s now bearing fruit," said Hacche.
"There is no historical evidence that reducing working hours anywhere has led to real significant increases in employment," he added.
Economists say even with incentives, businesses are unlikely to hire more workers until the economic climate improves.
"If a company is worried about future demand, they will not hire even if they get incentives to reduce working hours," said Mercier.
In any event, economists say the trend toward lower working hours in the West may have come to a close as competition from developing countries becomes ever more intense.
"The secular trend to reducing working time that the world witnessed during the 19th and 20th centuries has come to an end as a result of global competition," said one Paris economist. "People may have to work harder and longer if anything."
Sport-Tronix USA Inc said it has contracted with Comdial Corp to design and manufacture two new telecommunications products.
Terms were not disclosed.
Sport-Tronix USA also agreed to develop an industry standard telephone remote access unit that will be compatible with Industry Standard 2500 telephone system station connections.  This product will also be added to the comprehensive Comdial product family, it said.
Preliminary projections estimate sales of several thousand units of the new products during the first 12 months after introduction, increasing to 6,000 or more units after the first year, according to Sport-Tronix USA.
Wolverine Tube Inc said on Tuesday that Thomas Roller will join the company as president and chief executive September 16.
Roller, 46, was most recently president and chief executive of Fruehauf Trailer Corp Inc.
Prior to that, Wolverine said, Roller has had experience in the air conditioning and refrigeration industry with Carrier Corp and experience in international operations, and mergers and acquisitions with Rockwell International Corp.
NYCE cotton futures closed firmer on local buying and interest by one major U.S. merchant, which buoyed prices on the close, market sources said.
They attributed today's move to mostly technically inspired buying following four consecutive days of losses. "We retraced 62.5 percent from last week's runup," said Sharon Johnson, an analyst with Frank Schneider and Co Inc.
While Tropical Storm Dolly was nearing Mexico's Yucatan Peninsula and could dump heavy rain on U.S. cotton-growing regions, the storm was not likely to harm crops. Nonetheless, the sudden news of the storms may have prompted some of today's buying, sources said.
"At this point, the rains would probably be more beneficial but the specs may not know that," Johnson said.
Support in December was pegged between 72.50 and 72.25, while resistance was seen between 74.00 and 74.50.
The December contract closed up 0.89 at 73.40, having ranged from 73.45 to 72.60. October ended up 0.88 at 73.00, while the back months finished 0.93 to 0.18 firmer.
Volume was estimated at 5,500 lots.
Consumer Reports on Tuesday singled out two sports utility vehicles as having "too great a tendency to roll over in certain situations."
The consumer magazine said it rated the 1995 and 1996 Trooper (made by Isuzu Motors Ltd) and the 1996 Acura SLX (made by Honda Motor Co Ltd ) "not acceptable as a result.
Consumer Reports said that the sports trucks "tipped up high on two wheels" during a standard road test that simulates a car swerving to avoid an object on a highway.
The CNB-120 index, a broad daily measure of Czech equities, fell 1.2 points on Tuesday to 867.4 the Czech National Bank (CNB) said.
Five of the ten sectoral indices fell with the transport and communications index losing the most, down 26.3 points to 1,269.6.
London shares climbed to another record high on Tuesday led by renewed strength in retailing and oil stocks and following reassuring money supply from both the Britain and Germany.
The blue chip FTSE 100 index peaked at 3,883.4, 5-1/2 points up on its previous record set on Monday, after British M4, the broad measure of money supply, showed money growth remained subdued through July.
But trading interest was again muted and shares slipped back to 3,881.8 by late morning. Retailers provided the main impetus.
Markets were nervously awaiting the interest rate decisions from a Federal Reserve open market committee meeting later on Tuesday, and the Bundesbank's Council meeting on Thursday.
Given these worries, positive German money supply data failed to inspire the German stock market, which traded mixed after the Bundesbank announced slower growth of key M3 money supply figures and virtually guaranteed a cut in its key money market rate.
French stocks opened higher and breezed up 21 points, quickly pushing the index through the 2,000 barrier for the first time since August 8, on strengthened hopes of a new round of rate cuts.
Wall Street, also stilled by the FOMC meeting and general summer torpor, had its slowest full day of trade this year on Monday, which may have influenced Frankfurt's less than euphoric response to the money supply data.
Analysts said the British money supply figures would give further ammunition to Chancellor of the Exchequer Kenneth Clarke if he wants to trim the 5.75 percent base interest rate again in coming months.
"It is a good figure...most people hadn't expected the figure to come back into the monitoring range, which is about the first time for six or seven months," said economist Keith Wade of Schroders.
In Germany, growth in M3, the German central bank's main policy guide, slowed to an annualised 8.6 percent in July from 9.6 percent in June.
"It is now very clear that we have a very good chance to reach the Bundesbank target zone (of four to seven percent growth for 1996). I think there is a very good chance that we will see a cut in the repo rate," said Uwe Angenendt, economist at BHF-Bank in Frankfurt.
Assuming no change in U.S. interest rates, analysts expect germany's key money market, or repo, to be pared, although opinions vary as to the size of a possible cut.
The sleepy dollar was confined to narrow ranges throughout an extremely quiet European morning session, barely twitching an eyelid in reaction to a softer than generally expected German M3 number.
Volume was thin with few dealers willing to get involved.
"OK, so the Fed probably won't move and the Bundesbank probably will, particularly after that good M3 number. But in this market you will get killed if you're wrong and have a big position," said one trader. "I'm not taking the risk."
Dollar/mark was trading at 1.4902 and dollar/yen at 107.90 versus Monday's late 1.4875 and 107.90. Mark/French franc was trading at 3.4156 against 3.4232.
The Financial Times-Stock Exchange index of 100 leading British shares was up 18.2 points at 3,881.3. Frankfurt's 30-share DAX index was down 2.5 at 2,563.20. Paris's CAC-40 was up 19.32 at 2005.53.
Gold fixedS at $387.10 vs $386.40 on Monday morning and $386.25 PMMonday afternoon. SILVER was stronger at $5.11/$5.21, up eight cents. Boosted by Comex technical buying, but off highs on profit-taking.
Chile will send a new law to Congress next month to allow foreign companies to trade on the Santiago bourse, said Securities Superintendent Daniel Yarur.
The only restriction on companies that want to issue Chilean-style American Depositary Receipts is that they comply with regulations, Yarur told reporters.
"All those companies which fulfill the rules which we establish (can trade)," he said.
"We could think of Latin American companies, Latin American stocks and also other developed countries which may find it attractive to trade here," he said.
The move will be one of the first steps toward fulfilling Chile's long-held ambition to become a regional financial center.
GPU Generation Inc's 850 megawatt (MW) Keystone 1 coal-fired power plant, near Johnstown, Pa. has resumed full production after shutting down for repairs over the weekend, a company spokeswoman said.
"It came back on line August 19 at 8:14 PM (2014 EDT)," company spokeswoman Jane Oleksak said Tuesday.
The unit, one of two 850 MW units at Keystone plant, was taken off line Sunday to repair a leak in a boiler tube.
Unit 2 is operating normally.
The Keystone plant is operated by GPU Generation, a subsidiary of GPU Inc.
Keystone plant ownership is shared by a group of seven companies, including Baltimore Gas and Electric Co, Delmarva Power and Light Co, PP&L Resources Inc subsidiary Pennsylvania Power and Light Co and PECO Energy Co.
Queensland-based nickel producer QNI Ltd said on Tuesday that it expected nickel and cobalt markets to remain volatile in the 1996/97 year to June 30.
In a statement to the Australian Stock Exchange, QNI chairman Max Roberts said company profitability had been affected by falling metals prices and poor weather conditions that impacted on ore availability.
"Unusually prolonged poor weather conditions at mine sites in New Caledonia and Indonesia also affected ore supply availability and quality that impacted on production at the Yabulu refinery," Roberts said.
"The cost of restructuring operations and maintenance costs associated with the first ever refinery shutdown in June totalled A$9.3 million and also contributed to the decrease in operating profit," Roberts said.
As a result of the refinery shutdown, the company said annual nickel production was down seven percent to 26,637 tonnes while cobalt production slipped to at 1,425 tonnes.
By 2.30 p.m. (0430 GMT), QNI shares were steady at A$2.75 on turnover of 1.17 million shares.
President Clinton Tuesday signed legislation to suspend the 24.4 cents per gallon federal tax on diesel fuel used by recreational boaters.
The suspension, in effect from Aug. 27, 1996, to Dec. 31, 1997, was included in a law to raise the minimum wage.
"Seven days from now, our waterways will be less hazardous for many boaters who should be able to purchase the same red-dyed, non-taxed fuel used by commercial mariners, which is more widely available around the country," Michael Sciulla, government affairs director of the Boat Owners Association of the United States, said in a statement.
Recreational boaters have complained that the government's fuel-dying programme caused fuel shortages and safety problems.
The Treasury Department must send a report to Congress by April 1, 1997, on alternative means of collecting the diesel tax, first levied in 1994.
The constitutional committee of Peru's congress approved Tuesday a proposal that opens the way for President Alberto Fujimori to stand for a third consecutive term in office in the country's presidential elections in 2000.
Under Peruvian law, a president, who has been elected for two consecutive terms in office, cannot run in the following election.
But the congressional committee, where the government has a majority, voted Tuesday 9-6 in favor of a interpretation that means Fujimori's first term in office will not be taken into account should he wish to stand for re-election.
The congressional committee upheld Tuesday that only elections under the new constitution had validity when an incumbent president wished to put himself forward as a candidate for the next term.
The government proposal will now be put on Thursday to a vote of congress' full chamber, where the government's comfortable majority is expected to approve the constitutional committee's interpretation.
King Hassan II of Morocco has pardoned 592 prisoners to mark an important national anniversary, Moroccan radio reported on Monday night.
The mass pardon was commemorate King Mohamed V's temporary removal from the throne by French colonial authorities in 1953, the radio quoted Morocco's justice ministry as saying in a broadcast monitored by the BBC.
The Italian Oven Inc said Tuesday its latest financial statements had caused a "going concern" about its ability to continue operating.
It said it had terminated or suspended without pay 10 employees or 25 percent of its corporate staff at its Latrobe, Penn headquarters, sold its Erie and Cranberry, Penn restaurants and entered into agreements with landlords, construction contractors and trade creditors to defer current payables.
Italian Oven said it had also reached an agreement with its principal supplier to provide food and restaurant supplies to its restaurants. It added that it had delivered its $1.1 million note to the supplier, which requires Italian Oven to make five daily installment payments per week of $30,000 through December 30, with all outstanding amounts due and payable on December 31.
To collateralize its obligations, Italian Oven said it had granted to the supplier a security interest in all of its assets.
It also said it had engaged Wheat, First Securities, Inc to assist and advise it in obtaining suitable financing of up to $4 million and exploring potential strategic partnerships.
The space shuttle Atlantis, fitted with new rockets, was shifted to its seaside launch pad on Tuesday, bringing astronaut Shannon Lucid one step closer to home.
Atlantis is being primed for a Sept. 12 launch to pick up Lucid from the Russian Mir space station, where she has been working since March. The 53-year-old mother of three was due home earlier this month, but NASA delayed Atlantis' flight by six weeks to replace two suspect rocket boosters.
The shuttle made the slow, 3.4 mile (5.5 km) journey from its assembly building to the launch pad at the Kennedy Space Centre, riding atop a giant caterpillar-tracked transporter.
Shuttle managers ordered new solid rocket boosters for Atlantis after dangerously hot gas singed crucial seals in the boosters used to launch sistership Columbia in June.
Rocket engineers blamed the problem on a change in the adhesive and cleaning fluid used to assemble the slender 149-foot-long (45-metre) boosters. Atlantis' new set of rocket motors was built using old, tried and tested materials.
NASA is now seeking permission to continue using the old adhesive and cleaning agent, which was supposed to be phased out for environmental reasons.
Atlantis, which will also carry Lucid's replacement to Mir, John Blaha, is now scheduled for launch on Sept. 12, but may still face a further delay because the Air Force has a prior claim to the launch slot that day.
A Delta 2 rocket is scheduled to launch a military navigation satellite from Cape Canaveral on Sept. 12 and will use the same tracking and safety equipment needed by the shuttle.
The Delta launch team is trying to speed up their launch preparations but if they cannot the shuttle will have to wait until Sept. 14.
"We hope the Delta can launch earlier, clearing the way for Atlantis on the 12th," said NASA spokesman Bill Johnson.
Half-year figures from UK mobile telephone group Orange, showing reduced churn rate and solid revenues per subscriber, should be enough to halt the slide in its shares since March's flotation, analysts said on Tuesday.
And while some argue that rival Vodafone offers investors a much safer mobile play, bulls in Orange stock think its shares, currently trading 3-1/2 pence up at 190-1/2, could start to move back up towards their 205 pence offer price.
"People were starting to think it couldn't deliver on the things it floated on -- the low churn, the high average revenue per subscriber and so on," he said, adding that the latest figures suggested that Orange was performing to target.
Churn, the rate of loss of subscribers, fell to a low 17.6 percent over the period compared to the 25.6 percent last reported by Vodafone.
Average revenue per subscriber rose marginally to 446 stg a head from 444 stg last year.
"The growth in net subscribers, at around 30,000 a month, is not particularly pleasing but one positive point is that its subscriber acquisition costs are falling," he said.
Orange earlier said the average cost of acquiring a customer fell some nine percent over the period, although it warned that this trend might not continue into the second half.
"With new operators coming onto the U.S. (mobile) market, there could be a shake-out there, and US investors tend to think that what holds for the U.S. market is true elsewhere," SGST analyst John Tysoe said.
Tysoe said that if such a U.S. sell-off occured again, Vodafone, with its proven dividend and earnings record, could find itself more insulated than Orange, whose valuation depended more heavily on its future performance.
Vodafone shares traded flat at 244-1/2 pence on Tuesday.
These are the leading stories in the Algerian press on Tuesday as reported by the official Algerian news agency APS. Reuters has not verified these stories and does not vouch for their accuracy.
- The interior ministry denies London-based Arabic newspaper al-Hayat's report on massacre in the Algerian region of Batna.
- Algeria commemorates the uprising of Aug 20, 1956, against French colonial rule in Constantine areas.
- The revolutionary family of former nationalist fighters gather at Ifri in the eastern town of Bejaia to remember the Aug 20, 1956, events which helped Algeria win the liberation war.
- Representatives of opposition Rally for Culture and Democracy party suspend participation in joint committees debating political reforms to seek advice from the party leadership.
NOTE - Yaohan Hongkong operates department stores. Net is after an exceptional gain mainly from write back of accelerated depreciation charges.
The company said a prolonged slow economy and weak consumption sentiment had led to the second consecutive year of loss-making results.
Total dividend for the year is nil vs four HK cents.
Poland may suspend daytime traffic of heavy goods vehicles as of August 24, to prevent them causing road damage when expected high temperatures soften asphalt, transport authorities said on Tuesday.
"The ban would concern vehicles heavier than 12 tonnes between 11.00 a.m. (0900 GMT) and 11.00 p.m. (2100 GMT)," Karol Filipek, an official of the General Management of Public Roads (GDDP), said.
PAP news agency said traffic curbs would be announced in regions where temperatures exceed 30 degrees Celsius in the early afternoon, 48 hours before the ban takes effect.
GDDP will provide information about traffic bans on the Warsaw telephone number (48 22) 629 0794.
Note - Full name of company is Sing Investments & Finance Ltd.
Interest rates on Mexico's bellwether 28-day Cetes, or T-bills, are seen falling 158 basis points to 25.05 percent at auction, and rates are also seen falling at longer terms, according to a Reuters' survey of nine Cetes dealers.
Following is a table comparing last week's primary rates versus expectations for this week's auction and the expected change in basis points.
The results will be released by Banco de Mexico at 1830 local time/1930 EDT).
Slovenian shares eased 0.09 percent on Tuesday and brokers said they were likely to keep tracking sideways over the rest of the week.
"Although no major changes are expected this week as many investors are still on holidays, shares are more likely to rise than fall as most traders believe prices have already bottomed out," one broker said.
* The seven-share SBI index fell 0.84 points to 984.07.
* Five shares fell and 11 rose, while seven were untraded.
* Turnover rose to 79.5 million tolars from 58.5 million.
* Financial consultancy Finmedia had the highest turnover and was the leading decliner, falling 3.78 percent to 16,356 tolars on volume of 2,066 shares for total turnover of 33.8 million tolars.
Rating Announcement As of 08/16/96.
Olympic bomb suspect Richard Jewell passed a lie detector test in which he denied any involvement in the deadly July 27 attack, a polygraph expert hired by one of Jewell's attorneys said Tuesday.
Former Federal Bureau of Investigation agent Dick Rackleff said 15 hours of polygraph tests with Jewell on Aug. 4 and 15 were "unquestionable and conclusive from the standpoint that he was not involved in any way with the explosive device."
Jewell's attorneys paid for the polygraph exam in an effort to show the security guard had nothing to do with the pipe bombing that left two people dead and more than 100 injured at downtown Atlanta's Centennial Olympic Park.
Jewell, 33, who was hailed as a hero in the immediate aftermath of the bombing, remains a suspect in the FBI's investigation.
"My conclusion was that he's totally innocent of any connection with that pipe bomb that went off in the park which he discovered," said Rackleff, who administered polygraph examinations for the FBI in Atlanta from 1979 to 1990.
Jewell did not know a suspicious backpack contained a bomb when he pointed it out to a Georgia Bureau of Investigation agent the night of the blast, Rackleff said.
Jack Martin, a criminal attorney for Jewell, said the results show "he didn't have anything to do with it."
"There's not one shred of physical evidence to connect him to the crime. He's passed a lie detector test. If there was any hard evidence he'd be arrested," Martin said.
Speaking to reporters in front of a federal courthouse, he said the FBI should apologise to Jewell for identifying him as a suspect. "The man deserves an apology. Three weeks ago the FBI came to his residence, gave a news conference in front of his residence and named him as a suspect," Martin said. "We're here on their turf and we're asking for that apology."
While working as a security guard at an AT&T Olympic pavilion near the park, Jewell discovered the green knapsack that contained the pipe bomb and helped police clear crowds from the area before it detonated.
"The next time somebody sees a suspicious package like that and they want to turn it over to law enforcement and do the right thing, I hope that they don't hesitate to act for fear that 'Wait a second, I'm going to be the suspect,'" Martin said.
He said Jewell's career in law enforcement had been "ruined" because he was named in the case. He remains in the apartment he shared with his mother, unable to leave without being chased by hordes of reporters and FBI agents.
U.S. high-yield bonds were mostly unchanged at mid-session, although traders said new issuance and gaming sector trade punctuated the quietude.
Investment grade trade, meanwhile, was also lackluster ahead of an announcement on short-term rates by the Federal Open Market Committee. The tone was firm, however, and some selected spreads firmed by one or two basis points.
Standard & Poor's raised the company's corporate credit rating to B-minus from CCC-plus, reflecting the fact that the refinancing will allow the company to repay its outstanding debt and avoid onerous near-term maturities.
The new Haynes debt, due in 2004, was given a 11.625 percent coupon and priced at 98.095 by lead manager Merrill Lynch & Co Inc. S&P assigned a B-minus rating to the issue. Moody's Investors Service rates the issue B3.
Elsewhere, Sprint Spectrum LP set a total $523 million (proceeds) debt in two-tranches via lead managers Merrill Lynch and Lehman Brothers.
NOTE - Industrial holdings group T & N said it would offer capitalisation shares in lieu of the cash dividend. Terms will be announced next month.
The company said it was hit by higher debt and reduced margins in an increasingly competitive market. "A major improvement in current activity levels is not expected in the immediate future," it added.
Indonesian telecommunications company PT Indosat said on Tuesday that it has set up a joint venture company for cellular phone services in East Java.
It said in a statement the joint venture, PT Indoprima Mikroselindo or PT Primasel, was set up on August 16 with paid-up capital of five billion rupiah.
PT Indosat owns 20 percent of the stake, PT Yamabri Komunikasindo 35 percent, PT Industri Telekomunikasi Indonesia (Persero) 20 percent with the remaining shares controlled by Primkopparpostel or cooperatives.
Indosat said the joint venture was set up to carry out a pilot project for Personal Handyphone System services in East Java.
The Detroit Lions professional football team plans to leave the Pontiac Silverdome and move back to downtown Detroit into a new, 65,000-seat domed football stadium to be built adjacent to a new baseball stadium for the Detroit Tigers, officials said Tuesday.
The project includes a $20 million Lions practice and office facility to be built in south suburban Allen Park, Mich., on land owned by the Ford Motor Co. The Lions are owned by the family of Ford board members William Clay Ford and William Clay Ford Jr.
The Lions will contribute a total of $70 million toward the project, with at least $30 million coming from Detroit's Downtown Development Authority and $50 million coming from the Wayne County tax on hotels and rental cars, the News reported.
The move would be similar to efforts by Cleveland-area businesses in recent years to raise funds for downtown stadiums in that city.
Lions officials said construction on the new stadium will not likely begin until 1999. Lions President William Clay Ford Jr. said the team will not break its lease on the 21-year-old Pontiac Silverdome in suburban Pontiac, Mich., which expires in 2004.
"We tried very hard to work out a deal in Pontiac, but unfortunately we couldn't reach a deal that would make us competitive," Ford said in making the announcement. "And although we couldn't strike a deal we will honor our commitment to Pontiac. We will not seek to break our lease."
Unlike other recent National Football League franchise movements, the Lions do not stand to gain a huge windfall from the stadium deal, Ford said, calling it "a large financial risk."
The Lions will not sell "personal seat licenses" -- up-front fees that fans must pay for the right to buy a season ticket -- to help finance the new project, he said.
"Our goal is to keep as many tickets within the reach of the average family," Ford said.
The Lions stadium will be built adjacent to a new open-air, $240 million Detroit Tigers baseball stadium that recently cleared its last legal hurdle with the Michigan Supreme Court's rejection of a court challenge to the use of $55 million in state funds for the project.
The two facilities are expected to share parking and some concessions and merchandise facilities.
U.S. Treasuries were little changed at Tokyo midday on Tuesday as all eyes were set on the outcome of the U.S. Federal Open Market Committee (FOMC) meeting, to be held later today, traders said.
Although most Tokyo traders expect no policy change to emerge from the meeting, traders said participants are choosing to stand on the sidelines in case the Fed decides to make a surprise rate hike. The outcome of the meeting is expected to be reported around 1815 GMT.
At 0216 GMT, the benchmark 6-3/4 percent 30-year bond was standing down 1/32 at 99-12/32 with a yield of 6.80 percent.
The South African Reserve Bank has a free hand on interest rates, Finance Minister Trevor Manuel told reporters on Tuesday.
"The Reserve Bank is independent...The decision on interest rates is exclusively that of the South African Reserve Bank. We don't interfere at all...it's a call of Governor (Chris) Stals," he said.
The authorities have come under pressure this month to hike already high interest rates to defend the rand, but have been reluctant to do so, fearing the impact it would have on the economy.
The key Bank rate currently stands at 16 percent.
The National Bank of Slovakia (NBS) said on Tuesday it had fixed the crown at 30.468 to the dollar after Monday's fixing at 30.472.
The crown was fixed at 20.446 to the mark after 20.444.
Southcorp said the concrete business, which has sales of less than A$20 million, manufactures, markets, distributes and exports transit concrete mixers.
The company said the sale would enable its packaging arm to increase its focus on its core businesses which were mainly in the areas of food, beverage and industrial markets and to develop overseas opportunities.
At 1.55 p.m. (01355 GMT), Southcorp shares were steady at A$3.18 while Quokka shares were six cents firmer at 23 cents.
U.S. credit markets will likely remain rangebound on Wednesday as players focus on scant fresh economic data and the annoucement of the monthly supply of two- and five-year notes, analysts said.
"I think we're going to consolidate for a while ... people are going over the next week or so start thinking about things that might influence the Fed at their next meeting," said Gary Thayer, senior economist at A.G. Edwards & Sons Inc.
The federal funds rate was kept at 5.25 percent. The Federal Open Market Committee will meet next on September 24.
Analysts said the market's next main hurdles will be the employment report (Sept 6) and the National Association of Purchasing Management index on (Sept 3). Both indicators are for the month of August.
On Wednesday, the market will take in import and export prices for July at 1000 EDT/1400 GMT. Later in the day, players will get the federal budget figures for July.
A Reuters survey of economists show they expect the data, due out at 1400 EDT/1800 GMT, to stay at a negative $25.2 billion against a positive $34.1 billion in June.
The Federal Reserve Bank of Kansas City survey is also due out on Wednesday at 1000 EDT/1400 GMT.
Analysts see the yield on the 30-year T-bonds ranging between 6.75 percent and 6.85 percent on Wednesday.
Market watchers will also keep a very close eye on the annoucement of fresh supply on Wednesday, when the Treasury will set its monthly two- and five-year note auctions.
Analysts expect the Treasury to sell roughly $18.75 bilion in two-year notes and $12.5 billion in five-year securities.
Stilles added that "the only way you could justify the two-year note getting underwritten below six percent and the five-year note below 6-3/8 percent is if that idea gets and retains more popularity."
Otherwise, Stiles said the two's and five's would have to back up and put a little risk back into the yields in order to lure new buyers to the auctions.
The Fed refrained from operations in the open market on Tuesday. The federal funds rate is seen opening at 5.13 percent on Wednesday, analysts said.
 Austrian Schilling 13.3967  Turkish Lira	 109582.
Westinghouse and CBS said the new channel, to be launched March 31 will focus on contemporary and historical people who are in and out of headline news.
They said the channel will call on the programming and production resources of CBS News, CBS Sports, CBS Entertainment, EYEMARK Entertainment, the CBS Owned Television stations and CBS Television Network affiliated stations, as well as the CBS and Group W archives.
Westinghouse and CBS said they had also formed a program alliance with cable programmer Discovery Communications Inc for production of program series.
They said Group W Satellite Communications would offer the channel exclusively to multichannel distributors.
They said they will transmit the channel via a digitally compressed channel on Galaxy 7, transponder 9 with Group W Network Services handling production and satellite distribution services.
British mobile telephone group Orange Plc said Tuesday its pre-tax losses expanded by 40 percent to 125.2 million pounds ($193.6 million) in the first half of the year, although its subscriber base and revenues both grew.
Orange, whose shares have fallen well below the level at which they were offered to the public in March, said the loss was expected and pointed to steady gains in its subscribers and revenue as proof of the underlying health of the business.
"Our net growth has increased dramatically ... All the key drivers of the business, we are succeeding on," Managing Director Hans Snook said in an interview.
Shares in Orange gained 4 pence (6.2 cents) to 191 ($2.95) after the results, which compared with a loss of 88.8 million ($137.3 million) a year earlier.
But the stock is still well short of the 205 pence ($3.17) level of its flotation, which valued the group at some 2.5 billion pounds ($3.9 billion) and propelled it into the FTSE-100 index of leading British shares.
Orange said its revenue more than doubled to 256.5 million pounds ($396.7 million) from 100 million pounds (154.7 million) as it added a further 194,000 subscribers to take its total customer base to 573,000.
Model and actress Margaux Hemingway, who was found dead last month, committed suicide by taking an overdose of the sedative phenobarbital, the Los Angeles County Coroner's Office announced on Tuesday.
Coroner's spokesman Scott Carrier told a news conference the 41-year-old granddaughter of literary great Ernest Hemingway died of "acute phenobarbital intoxication" and that the levels of the drug in her body were so high she must have taken it intentionally.
Carrier said Hemingway apparently did not have a doctor's prescription for phenobarbital and investigators were trying to determine where she obtained it in such large amounts. The announcement followed six weeks of toxicological tests after the initial autopsy failed to reveal the cause of death.
Hemingway's body was found by friends sprawled on her bed in her Santa Monica apartment on July 1, just one day short of the 35th anniversary of her famous grandfather's suicide. It was not clear exactly when she died as the friends went to the home after she had not been seen for two days.
Hemingway, who gained fame first as a supermodel for perfume, later worked as an actress in such films as "Lipstick" and "Killer Fish." She had a well-publicised bout with alcoholism after a near-fatal skiing accident and also battled bulimia. In addition, she had a history of epilepsy.
Her agent, Graham Kaye, told KNBC television in Los Angeles, "Whatever demons she was fighting is over now and it's just time to let her rest."
Hemingway's body was cremated and services were held in July in her hometown of Ketchum, Idaho.
Waterhouse Investor Services Inc said on Tuesday that its stockholders overwhelmingly approved a merger with a newly formed subsidiary of the Toronto-Dominion Bank.
About 9.5 million shares, or more than 80 percent of Waterhouse's outstanding shares, took part in the vote. Of those, more than 98 percent voted in favor of the merger, the company said.
The proposed C$715 million merger is expected to be closed about September 16. When it is completed, Waterhouse will join Toronto-Dominion Bank's Green Line Investor Services.
Tokyo stock prices were mixed in early morning trade on Tuesday, with the market's benchmark Nikkei average continuing on the rebound path it started on Monday.
Gains were likely to be limited, brokers said, as market activity was still fairly thin although the peak week for Japanese corporations' summer vacations was over.
At 0019 GMT, the 225-share Nikkei average was up 44.21 points or 0.21 percent at 21,150.62. In the futures market, however, the key September futures, were down 50 points at 21,120.
"The Nikkei will probably try for the 21,207 level, which is one-third of the way up from its (recent) lows, and after that it may eye the 21,400 to 21,500 level," one broker added.
Consumer Reports magazine slapped a "Not Acceptable" label on two sport/utility vehicles Tuesday, saying the light trucks "have too great a tendency to roll over in certain situations."
The magazine said the 1995 and 1996 models of the Isuzu Trooper, made by Isuzu Motors Ltd., and the 1996 Acura SLX, also made by Isuzu but sold by Honda Motor Co. Ltd., were a danger to consumers because they "tipped up high on two wheels" in road tests.
The magazine said consumers should stop buying the models, called for an immediate recall of the approximately 35,000 cars that have been sold and said repairs or replacement models should be offered by the manufacturer.
A spokesman for Isuzu defended the vehicles.
"It's very important for both consumers in general and Isuzu Trooper owners to understand very clearly that the Isuzu Trooper meets all federal safety standards and regulations," Isuzu spokesman Daniel McCue told Reuters.
But Smith Barney analyst David Garrity said the report by the influential magazine could prove damaging.
"If Consumer Reports comes out and says, 'Don't buy this product,' the sales will go down," Garrity said. "You saw what happened to the Suzuki Samurai in the '80s."
The tiny Suzuki Samurai, introduced in the mid-1980s, was also the target of a Consumer Reports article alleging that the sport/utility vehicle was prone to rollovers. The campaign eventually led to the vehicle being pulled off the market.
Garrity said the report was a blow to Honda's Acura brand, which it has worked hard to cultivate. "If I were Honda, I'd demand (of Isuzu) that the problem be fixed, and I'd be more focused on developing my own product," he said.
Consumer Reports also asked the National Highway Traffic Safety Administration to investigate the Trooper and SLX and called for more stringent government oversight of vehicles with narrow wheelbases.
Government regulations currently call for all vehicles with a wheel base of 110 inches or less to carry a warning sticker stating that "sharp turns or abrupt manoeuvres" may cause the vehicle to roll over or crash.
Both the Trooper and the SLX have wheelbases of 108.7 inches.
Both companies said they were reviewing Consumer Report's test data and would look further into the matter.
Neither McCue nor Acura spokesman Mike Spencer knew of any reports from customers of their vehicles tipping or rolling over, and neither knew of any ongoing NHTSA investigation.
"We have not had an opportunity to thoroughly review the testing methodology used. Nevertheless, Acura believes the SLX is a safe and reliable vehicle when driven in a responsible manner," Spencer told Reuters.
According to Spencer, only about 1,857 SLXs have been sold since the vehicle was introduced in November, 1995.
Nigerian authorities on Tuesday described as "crazy" reports that 16 activists from the Ogoni region had been arrested in the run-up to an anticipated Commonwealth visit.
"It is crazy to say Ogonis have been arrested for being MOSOP (Movement for the Survival of Ogoni People) members, any time an Ogoni is arrested for anything they have to say it is political. I am not aware of these arrests at all," Fidelis Agbiki, press secretary to the local military administrator told Reuters by telephone from Port Harcourt.
MOSOP on Monday said a total of 16 Ogoni activists had been arrested in the past month.
"Less than three weeks before the scheduled visit of the Commonwealth Ministerial Action Group to Nigeria, a new wave of arrests of MOSOP activists has begun," the group said in a statement issued in London.
Africa's most populous nation became an international pariah after MOSOP leader Ken Saro-Wiwa and eight other Ogoni activists were executed for murder last November, provoking international protests and Nigeria's suspension from the Commonwealth.
MOSOP said that the first of the new wave of arrests was Akina Deesor, producer of a radio station in Ogoni. Deesor was detained on July 31 for broadcasting an Ogoni song.
Fifteen more people were arrested on August 13 and accused of planning to seek meetings with the Commonwealth mission, it added.
"Victims of the latest arrests are detained at unknown destinations and MOSOP believes they must have been tortured and kept in terrible conditions," the statement said.
Earlier this year, Nigeria refused to allow a Commonwealth fact-finding mission into the country, allowing instead a team from the United Nations.
But this month Nigeria offered to host talks on its suspension from the club of Britain and its former colonies in the capital Abuja on August 29-30.
The eight-nation Commonwealth Ministerial Action Committee on Nigeria has yet to respond to the invitation.
The two sides met in London in June and Commonwealth ministers decided not to impose agreed sanctions on Nigeria pending further talks.
"We are not guilty of 'Ogoniphobia'," said Agbiki. "As we don't even know if the Commonwealth will visit here how can we arrest people for trying to meet them?"
The U.N. team called for reform of some laws, including those under which Saro-Wiwa and the other activists were hanged, but backed military ruler General Sani Abacha's plan for restoring democracy by 1988, which the Commonwealth group had called "inadequate".
Hundreds of people demonstrating against alleged repression met the U.N. group on its visit to Ogoniland.
"The visit of the UN fact-finding team to Nigeria last April occasioned similar repression in Ogoni and the reprisal actions that followed that visit cost the Ogonis two lives and several detentions," MOSOP said.
The 500,000 Ogonis live on oil-rich land, which MOSOP says has been ruined by the activities of producing companies.
Shell, which pumps nearly half on Nigeria's two million barrels a day of crude oil, halted production in Ogoniland in 1993 after acts of sabotage by activists.
The U.S. Defense Logistics Agency set Tuesday's offering price for stockpile tin at $2.77 per lb, unchanged from yesterday.
Two politically moderate millionaires from Massachusetts battling for a U.S. Senate seat Monday night debated a range of issues that always seemed to come back to children.
Massachusetts Republican Gov. William Weld, who is challenging Democratic incumbent Sen. John Kerry, has named welfare, taxes and crime as his big three issues, and took some heat for not naming education, which is the second largest industry in the state.
Weld defended himself saying, "We are spending $1.2 billion a year more on K(indergarten) through 12(th grade) education than we did in fiscal '92. That's the biggest shift in budget priorities we've made."
But Kerry noted a recent General Accounting Office study found 92 percent of the schools in Massachusetts "are in disrepair ... Education is the single most important thing we need to do in America. The Republicans are cutting Head Start. The Republicans are cutting safe and drug-free schools."
No matter the question, whether it was about personal sacrifice to the possible legalisation of assisted suicide, Kerry was able to turn it around to children.
When asked about any personal sacrifice he had made in his career, Kerry replied: "I would not say that being in public life is a sacrifice...there are things that you pay as a price and that is what happens to our children."
He said being in Washington so much kept him from seeing them and being there for them.
When asked about legalising assisted suicide, he said: "What I'd rather see us spending more time on ... is not how we're going to help people die, but how we're going to help people live beginning with children. And the fact is we have got an awful lot of kids who are increasingly in poverty."
Doosan will issue two million new common shares, 20 percent of which will be offered to its employees. The rest will be allocated to its shareholders as of October 8 for rights.
Subscription is set for November 4 and 5, with payment due by November 7.
The rights issue will be made at a 30 percent discount to a base issue price to be announced at a later date.
With the rights issue offer, paid-in capital in the company will rise to 71.96 billion won from 61.96 billion at present.
Shares of Doosan closed at 12,700 won on Tuesday, down 200.
Britain's FTSE 100 stock index, which sank to its lowest year level a month ago, chalked up a record closing high on Tuesday led by bullish retail sector sentiment.
"You probably couldn't have forecast a better background for the equity market than the one we've currently got," said one senior share trader. "The market has a lot going for it."
The blue chip index closed 19.5 points higher at 3,883.2, surpassing the previous 3,872.9 record it set just last week.
Gainers outweighed decliners by a margin of two to one but volume was a subdued 512.9 million shares as all eyes remained fixed on the outcome of the interest rate setting U.S. Federal Open Markets Committee, which was meeting as the London market closed.
The retail stocks which led an early advance were boosted by the latest economic figures which flagged an improvement in British consumer sentiment.
"The consumer credit figures this morning showed another booming month -- the consumer is back with a vengeance," another trader said.
But the return of the so-called "feel-good factor" in the retail sector may also reduce the likelihood of any further cuts in UK interest rates, traders said.
This view was shared by Britain's largest mortgage lender, the Halifax Building Society.
"(A rate cut) would be more politically inspired than by the needs of the housing market," Halifax chairman Jon Foulds told reporters at the company's interim results' presentation.
Leading the retail sector's advance, GUS was squeezed 23p higher to close at 663p, following the release of strong interim results from discount retailer Argos yesterday.
On the back of the same wave of optimism, electronics retailer Dixons gained 11p to 535p and Kingfisher ended 14p higher at 668p, with dealers saying some investors anticipate more positive news from other half year results in the sector.
Whether the UK share market as a whole continues to go from strength to strength is largely dependent on events across the Atlantic, especially and the outcome of the FOMC policy meeting.
"We've really seen little or no selling today, (and) most people are assuming there will be no change (in U.S. rates)," one senior dealer said.
But trade remained cautious in the U.S. and the Dow was little changed, up 3.7 points, when London markets closed.
"We are still looking for reasurrance on U.S. rates," a dealer said. "If they don't increase rates now, we want to know when are they likely to".
The New Zealand dollar ended off its high but still within its new range on Tuesday, with strength in the Australian dollar being the main influence.
The Kiwi ended at US$0.6910/17, down from its opening of 0.6925/32, having traded a 0.6898-33 range.
The Trade-Weighted Index ended steady at 65.51 from 65.54.
"Overall it's well-bid on the back of the Australian dollar's strength," said one dealer, adding renewed Samurai interest, plus pre-budget buying, were the main drivers.
In the New Zealand dollar, Asian buying was acting as a key support.
The sale by the Government of Forestry Corp -- its second largest privatisation -- did little to move the currency.
Support for the Kiwi is expected at 0.6900 but formidable resistance was seen building at 0.6940.
"It looks pretty dangerous at 0.6940 so it might spike higher if it breaks that level," he said.
These are some of the leading stories in Israeli newspapers on Tuesday. Reuters has not verified these stories and does not vouch for their accuracy.
- Prime Minister Netanyahu warns Hizbollah guerrillas against Lebanon escalation.
- Syria test launched a Scud C missile.
- Jewish settlers want international observers out of Hebron.
- Israeli officials concerned at Palestinian self-rule Authority offices operating just outside Jerusalem.
- Housing for 70,000 people planned for both sides of pre- 1967 Middle East war border with occupied West Bank. Housing Ministry says at first building will be inside Israel but if needed will extend east into West Bank.
- Accent Software lays off 17 of 150 employees after "disappointing" second quarter results.
- Cool reception for safety net tender at bond market.
- Syria test launches Scud C missile.
- Religious party in coalition will demand Netanyahu put up law on closing Jerusalem street.
- Agriculture Minister Raphael Eitan warns Netanyahu to stick to hardline government guidelines.
- Army checking setting up pre-army training for secular youth like that run for religious youth.
- Immigrant women divorced abroad asked to remarry, re-divorce by rabbinate in Israel.
- 70 billion shekels is owed by government to army and police pensioners ($1=3.20 shekels).
- Syria tests improved Scud.
- Israeli army closely watching Syrian manoeuvres.
- Palestinian sources say Israel caught guerrillas who killed Israelis in drive-by shootings.
- Investment group sells 23.2 percent of Union Bank shares.
- Israel under former prime minister Peres kidnapped four Lebanese who gave Mossad agent to Syria.
- Army has to pay property tax on positions on Golan.
- Convicted spy Klingberg got seven-hour leave from jail.
- Brodet commission rejects proposal to ensure minimum return to pension fund members.
Bristol-Myers Squibb Co and Sano Corp said they struck a pact for Bristol-Myers to complete clinical testing and market Sano's transdermal formulations of Bristol-Myers' BuSpar, a prescription drug used to treat anxiety.
Sano also will manufacture transdermal BuSpar for Bristol-Myers and receive a percentage of transdermal BuSpar net sales.
BuSpar is an oral treatment for anxiety and is used in many countries as a three-times daily treatment. It was recently approved in the United States as a twice-daily treatment, the companies said.
Sano has developed transdermal patches of BuSpar, which are currently in Phase III clinical trials.
New car sales in Poland jumped more than 33 percent in the first seven months of 1996 compared with the same period last year, PAP news agency said on Tuesday.
PAP quoted a report by the Samar agency, which monitors the domestic car market, as saying that about 230,766 units were sold over the period, up from 173,435 a year earlier.
The Polish unit of Fiat led the market with 98,545 units sold, but its market share shrank to 43 percent this year from 51 percent in 1995.
Other top sellers include Daewoo-FSO, a unit of South Korea's Daewoo Corp , General Motors' German unit Adam Opel AG and France's Renault .
Samar Director Wojciech Drzewiecki has earlier predicted that Poland's auto sales should exceed 300,000 this year, compared to about 265,000 in 1995.
The increase is spurred by growth in real wages and more attractive bank loans.
China's imports of unwrought aluminium and aluminium materials in the first seven months were 370,735 tonnes, up 26.1 percent from the same period last year, the China Securities newspaper said on Tuesday.
In July, imports of unwrought aluminium and aluminium materials reached 71,836 tonnes, up from 53,395 tonnes in June, it said, quoting customs statistics.
Imports of unwrought aluminium including alloys reached 219,918 tonnes in January-July, up 25.8 percent from the same 1995 period. Imports in July alone were 39,417 tonnes, up from 26,001 tonnes in June, it said.
In January-July, imports of aluminium materials hit 150,817 tonnes, up 26.6 percent from the same period last year. Imports in July alone were 32,419 tonnes, it said.
China imported 134,486 tonnes of aluminium scrap in the first seven months, down 30 percent compared with the same 1995 period. Imports in July were 33,982 tonnes.
Imports of alumina in the January-July were 600,000 tonnes, up 7.6 percent compared with the same period last year. Imports in July were 130,000 tonnes, it said.
A computer-controlled system for delivering anaesthesia, which developers claim reduces post-operative nausea to almost nil, will go on sale commercially in Britain next month.
The Target Controlled Infusion system will be marketed at first by Zeneca Group Plc, a spokeswoman for the developers at Glasgow University and HCI International Medical Centre in Clydebank, Scotland, said.
The system, introduced at the World Congress of Anaesthesia in Sydney in April, uses a computer microchip to calculate tiny, exact doses of drug.
"It is the only commercially available system designed to deliver this type of intravenous anaesthesia in the world, providing for the first time ever a safe and accurate way of administering non-emetic (not causing nausea) anaesthetic drugs," the hospital said in a statement.
The system's developer, anaesthesiologist Gavin Kenny, said it bypassed having to deliver drugs through a respirator.
"It enables us to use an intravenous agent, Diprivan, not only to make the patient go to sleep but also to maintain anesthesia," Kenny said.
"The patient wakes up very clear-headed but with no nausea," he added. "No nausea, no vomiting, no nasty taste in the mouth."
He said that of the 40,000 to 50,000 patients who had been given the drug this way, not one had died of complications arising from anaesthesia.
PT Tambang Timah was traded at $16.625 per GDR in London on Tuesday at around 0813 GMT.
It recorded a low of $16.575 and a high of $16.625. Volume was 40,000.
Its previous close on Monday was $16.275.
One Global Depository Receipt represents 10 common shares.
H D Brous & Co Inc said on Tuesday it initiated coverage of Eclipse Surgical Technologies Inc with a buy recommendation.
Analyst Howard Rosencrans said the Sunnyvale, Calif.-based Eclipse was "rapidly emerging as the leader in the nascent transmyocardial revascularization (TMR) market.
TMR is a surgical procedure that uses lasers in treating cardiovascular disease. It represents an alternative to more invasive angioplasty or bypass surgery. More than three million people might be candidates for such a procedure by 1998, Rosencrans wrote.
Eclipse is conducting trials to gain U.S. Food and Drug Administration approval of its TMR 2000 system as both an alternative to drug therapy and as an adjunct to bypass surgery, Rosencrans said.
NOTE - Matsushita-Kotobuki Electronics Industries Ltd specialises in video equipment production.
Austria Mikro Systeme (AMS) micro-chip producer dipped over five percent on Tuesday as investors showed disappointment with first half results released earlier in the day, dealers said.
"AMS is a surprise. Three million losses for the whole group looks quite weak and it explains the sell-off," a dealer at an Austrian bank said.
AMS posted a first half group pre-tax loss of 3.1 million schillings. 1995 figures were not available because of business consolidation over the past year with two major acquisitions.
"Because of the low liquidity, the share price tends to oscillate a lot on any news. It tends to go up or down 10 to 15 percent on a given day just like that," a trader said.
Dealers expected AMS to slip further over the next few days as investors continued to sell in response to the first half results.
Chinese police have confiscated 9,000 fake or stolen army licence plates during inspections of about 200,000 vehicles in a two-year crackdown, state radio said on Tuesday.
Police had smashed 20 illegal plate-making rings and seized dozens of sets of equipment used to make false military plates and driver's licences, the report said.
Cars with military licence plates hold a special status on China's roads, as many policemen ignore traffic violations committed by their drivers.
NYMEX crude and products, perhaps getting ahead of themselves during the sharp gains of the last two sessions, were likely to take a step back in early trading on Tuesday to alleviate some overbought signals, chartists said.
But they quickly cautioned that crude and heating oil have left bullish fingerprints on both their daily and weekly charts, and would likely resume their upward march, either before or after the spot September crude expires later on Tuesday.
"One thing that did happen yesterday in the September was we took out an old high on the weekly chart from May at $22.90 and we're heading up on the weekly continuation to $23.75," based on a Fibonacci retracement level, said one technical analyst in Chicago. "I think there is more upside left."
Her objective for October crude is $22.75 based on a Fibonacci projection. She subtracted the July 29 low of $19.56 from its August 13 peak of $21.87, multiplied by 0.38 and added that to $21.87. She also expected crude to reach resistance at $23.
"We'll probably see some follow through buying and test $23 soon," she predicted. "We're pretty friendly but it looks like it could be entering a temporary corrective phase."
She said stochastics on the daily chart were "starting to fade," suggesting a consolidation phase. But she added that it must hold its high from July at $21.14, which based on its strong uptrend it should have no difficulty doing.
"I don't think the tops are quite in yet. We're close but not there yet," said one commission house vice president in New York, referring to both crude and the products.
He said October crude's nine-day Relative Strength Index was at an overbought level of 78 percent but that its ability to break to the upside from a trading channel and settle above it were bullish signs.
October crude has been in an upward channel since spring and broke the top of it on Friday, he said. The top, crossing today at $21.86, should serve as support.
On a very short term basis, he said October crude's pivot point -- the average of the previous session's high, low and settlement -- is $22.32 today. The contract settled on Monday at $22.47 and last traded on ACCESS at $22.23.
"We're going to open below that pivot which is a bit more negative," he said. "But they may try to run it up to that number early on and if they can't push it much beyond there then it will turn right around and come back down."
Resistance for September heating oil is at 62.75 cents a gallon, the top of an uptrending channel dating back to June, and support at its Friday high of 61.90 cents, he said.
For September gasoline, he said the top of a long-term channel dating to May crosses today at 65.80 cents, which is resistance, and support is at its Friday high of 63.50 cents.
Ryan, Beck & Co said it won $5.932 million of Hawthorne, N.J., general obligation bonds, with the lowest rate 5.20, highest price of 100.023.
The bashing that Malaysia's state electricity company Tenaga Nasional has taken after a nationwide blackout earlier this month could affect its finances, Tenaga Chairman Ani Arope said on Tuesday.
The government-owned news agency Bernama quoted Ani as saying in an interview that the criticism of Tenaga had caused the image of the company to plunge "to the minus zero level" both nationally and internationally.
"I hope that the powers that be and all those involved in the healthy development of the power industry would look to the finances of Tenaga and see to it that Tenaga does not become bankrupt," he told Bernama.
"If Tenaga were to go under financially, I think it's going to create another big national financial blackout," said Dr Ani who is due to retire at the end of this month after six years at the Tenaga helm.
The 12-15-hour August 3 blackout over peninsula Malaysia -- the second in four years -- indirectly caused the deaths of four children when the candles they were using burned down their house. It trapped people in lifts, delayed flights, stopped trains, and cost industry some $50 million in lost output.
Ani said industries that depend on Tenaga, especially the Independent Power Producers (IPPs), could only survive if Tenaga was healthy.
Ani, who will be succeeded by Standards and Industrial Research Institute of Malaysia Director-General Ahmad Tajuddin Ali on September 2, said if Tenaga defaulted on one payment to the industry, it would create a financial domino effect that would be "real bad".
Malaysia allowed the private sector into Tenaga's former monopoly on power production after a 1992 blackout.
He said he could understand the frustration and the embarrassment of people as a result of the blackout.
Prime Minister Mahathir Mohamad said he was "sad and ashamed" and deputy Prime Minister Anwar Ibrahim called it "a national embarrassment".
"Don't you think that we are not embarrassed, we are embarrassed," Ani said.
In the interbank market, call money rose to 8.6 percent from 8.3 percent at the close Friday.
The U.S. dollar rose to 0.99995 pesos from 0.99942 pesos Friday.
Sprint Corp said on Tuesday that it chose Netscape Communications Corp to provide the World Wide Web browser for its newly launched Internet service, Sprint Internet Passport.
Sprint said it will also include Netscape Navigator in its retail Internet systems, and said Netscape will feature Sprint as an Internet service provider in Netscape's retail Internet systems.
Sprint, already the world's largest carrier of Internet traffic, according to the company, said its service will include the Navigator software, access speeds up to 28.8 kilobits per second (kbps) and a rebate certificate for a 28.8 kbps modem, and local dial access in 212 U.S. cities.
A pricing plan was not announced.
The announcement moves Sprint into an arena already occupied by AT&T Corp and MCI Communications Corp, as well as several regional Bell operating companies.
Piper Jaffray said Tuesday at the final pricing for Minnesota's $19.075 million certificates of participation issue that the one-year deal was priced with a 4.5 percent coupon to yield 3.85 percent.
The deal is rated MIG-1 by Moody's Investors Service Inc and dated 9/9/1996. It is due on 9/9/1997. The amount remains subject to change, Piper said.
The average of forecasts by UK money market brokers of today's market shortage is 700 million stg, according to a Reuter market survey.
The official forecast for the shortage will be released by the Bank of England at between 0845 GMT and 0900 GMT.
A British man arrested during a neo-Nazi demonstration in southern Sweden, allegedly armed with a homemade bomb, was remanded in custody on Tuesday and will face trial in two weeks time, a police spokesman said.
The 34-year-old man, born in London but currently of no fixed address, was one of seven people arrested on Saturday when a demonstration in Trollhattan erupted into violent clashes between neo-Nazis and anti-racist groups.
Contrary to an earlier police statement, the man was a supporter of the anti-racist group, not the neo-Nazis.
Police spokesman Sergeant Stig Andersson told Reuters that the British man appeared before Trollhattan court on Tuesday, charged with possessing a weapon with intent to harm.
He was remanded in custody.
Andersson said the man, whose name cannot be released under Swedish law, would face trial in nearby Uddevalla in about two weeks' time.
He said the other six people arrested had been released.
The demonstration was held to mark the anniversary of the death of Adolf Hitler's right-hand man, Rudolf Hess.
Around 600 police, some on horseback, were called in to separate the two groups after fighting broke out.
Some of the demonstrators had travelled from Norway, Denmark, Britain and Germany for the event.
One person, a skinhead, needed hospital treatment after being hit on the head by a rock during the brawl.
Some policemen were slightly hurt in the melee and several demonstrators were bitten by police dogs but no other injuries were reported.
Hundreds of Rwandan Hutu refugees fled Burundi on Tuesday for their equally troubled homeland despite assurances from Burundi's new Tutsi strongman Major Pierre Buyoya that he was opposed to any expulsions.
U.N. refugee agency officials said a total of 3,313 Rwandans had crossed the border into Rwanda by Tuesday afternoon and had reached Musange transit camp outside Butare.
A convoy of trucks with 1,480 refugees would cross the border within the next 30 minutes, they said.
They said heavy rains had prevented further movements and the exercise was being suspended until Wednesday.
"The rains have prevented further movements from Magara camp in Burundi. These refugees will be the last movements for the day," an official with the U.N. High Commissioner for Refugees (UNHCR) told Reuters in Butare.
Magara is the biggest Rwandan refugee camp in north Burundi and once held over 45,000 people. After earlier expulsions, and the flight of some 7,000 refugees on Monday -- 24 hours after soldiers killed three refugees -- about 24,000 remain.
"The largest concentration of refugees will arrive this afternoon and evening," said Stephano Severe, head of UNHCR in Butare.
The refugees accuse the Tutsi-dominated Burundian army of harassment and say they fear for their lives. To help them return to Rwanda, the International Organisation for Migration (IOM) has organised 91 trucks and buses.
Butare governor Atanase Samuhungu told Reuters he expected some refugees, accused of taking part in Rwanda's 1994 genocide, to face problems once they reached their original villages.
"The problems will be in the countryside when they try to reintegrate," Samuhungu said without elaborating.
Around two million Rwandan Hutus fled their homeland to Zaire, Tanzania and Burundi in 1994 after Tutsi rebels defeated the Hutu army and ousted the government, blamed for the genocide of up to one million Tutsis and moderate Hutus.
Burundi's new leader Buyoya pledged on Tuesday to protect the refugees after they complained of harassment and beatings from his army. Buyoya's spokesman said a team of investigators had been sent to northern Burundi. The spokesman also said Buyoya had sacked the country's three most powerful military officers.
Buyoya's spokesman Jean-Luc Ndizeye told Reuters by telephone that the new president of Burundi remained committed to international conventions on the protection of refugees.
Shortly after the July 25 coup that brought him to power, Buyoya ordered an end to expulsions of Rwandan Hutu refugees.
Ndizeye said the latest exodus from the north was caused by panic after troops entered Magara on Sunday to search for arms.
He said Burundian army positions near Magara had come under fire on Saturday and Sunday forcing soldiers to move into the camp to search for weapons and ammunition.
He said anyone found guilty of inciting refugees to leave against their will would be punished. "The president is not going back on his word to protect refugees," he said.
The exodus of Rwandan refugees picked up after troops killed three refugees at Magara camp. Army spokesman Lieutenant-Colonel Jean Minani confirmed on Tuesday that soldiers killed them but said they fired only after one refugee shot at them.
Besides the 24,000 refugees remaining at Magara, another 13,000 are at Rukuramigabo Camp in neighbouring Kirundo province, Paul Stromberg, UNHCR regional spokesman told Reuters.
Burundian authorities accuse the refugees of supporting Hutu rebels in a war against the Burundian army in which 150,000 people have died since 1993.
The Chicago Board of Trade reported the following stocks of soybeans in Chicago, deliverable against CBOT futures. (in 000's bushels).
Economists said there was not much in the budget that would affect the equities market, except perhaps for the cut in the research and development tax deduction rate for compnies and a go-ahead for banks to operate pension-savings accounts.
During a special late trading session on the Sydney Futures Exchange, the Australian Shares Price Index (SPI) fell six points to 2270 points, compared with a close of 2283 at the end of normal trade, narrowing the premium to the underlying index.
"The sharemarket will probably react a little bit like the bond market and the currency market has tonight," ANB AMRO economist Susan Creighton told Reuters.
"It is probably not as good as the market expected, because they have built in such high expectations. There might be a little bit of disappointment," Creighton said.
The Australian sharemarket hit a three-month high on Tuesday on expectations that the budget would be tough on cutting the nation's budget deficit and open the possibility for a rate cut.
"The thing that could well keep the equity market buoyed is that Costello is certainly keeping alive the rate cut hope and that is certainly affecting the Aussie dollar tonight," Creighton said.
The Treasurer announced an underlying budget deficit of A$5.65 billion and a headline budget surplus of A$474 million for 1996/97 after budget savings of A$3.9 billion. Median forecasts had an underlying deficit of A$4.9 billion.
"I think the stocks will take the cue from the bond market. There is nothing in the budget that is anything equities," said Prudential-Bache Securities chief economist Dennis Mahoney.
Russia raked in more tax revenues in the first 15 days of August than in the first half of each of the previous three months and met targets set by the International Monetary Fund, a Finance Ministry official said on Tuesday.
But Jochen Wermuth, head of the Finance Ministry's economic expert group, said that revenues -- 5.2 trillion roubles for the 15-day period -- were well below the government's 25 trillion rouble target for the month.
"There is a significant upward trend in revenue collection and that is why the IMF is happy," he said. "It is still below target, but this is what the IMF wanted for this month."
Wermuth said revenues averaged 520 billion roubles for each working day in the first 15 days of August, compared with an average of 411 billion for the working days in the first half of May, June and July.
The IMF said on Monday that a mission looking at Russia's revenue performance was returning to Washington satisfied that Russia was taking the measures needed to boost revenue collection.
The IMF had delayed the release of the July tranche of a $10 billion three-year loan because it was worried about Russia's ability to meet revenue targets.
Some Russian officials have said they hope for a double payment this month, combining the July and August tranches of the loan.
But Moscow office head Thomas Wolf said on Monday a second delegation had arrived in Moscow to look at August data and assess whether Russia was doing enough to receive that installment of the loan.
Release of the loan would be viewed as a clear vote of confidence in Russian economic policy by domestic and and foreign investors.
But any news may be overshadowed by investor concern about Russian political instability and the virtual disappearance of President Boris Yeltsin, who has not been seen in public since he was inaugurated for a second term on August 9.
Aides, denying persistent rumours that Yeltsin has been taken ill, say the Kremlin leader has started a two-day break in the picturesque lakeland of northwestern Russia.
U.S. crude oil stocks held in primary storage rose 296,000 barrels in the week ended Aug 16 to 308.43 million barrels from 308.13 million in the prior week, the American Petroleum Institute (API) said Tuesday.
API said gasoline stocks fell 864,000 barrels in the week to 197.79 million from a revised 198.65 million barrels that was previously reported as 197.64 million. Distillate stocks rose 1.83 million barrels to 106.12 million from 104.29 million.
API said crude runs to processing units fell to 14.20 million barrels from 14.42 million barrels. Percent of capacity fell to 93.0 percent in the week from 94.7 percent.
Residual fuel stocks in the latest week rose to 35.56 million barrels from 34.88 million in the previous week, and crude oil imports rose to 8.78 million barrels per day from 8.18 million, API said.
CMC Industries, Inc.
Shareholders of Swiss temporary employment firm Adia SA approved an increase in capital to prepare for a planned merger with French firm Ecco SA to create a new firm Adecco SA.
Shareholders voted in favour of a nominal capital increase of 95,347,000 Swiss francs at a special annual general meeting.
The increase involves issuance of shares worth a nominal 10 Swiss francs, priced at issue at 43.23 Swiss francs.
The measure will raise a total of 412,185,081 Swiss francs.
The new firm will be rival in size U.S.-based Manpower Inc.
Headlines from major national newspapers. Reuters has not verified these stories and does not vouch for their accuracy.
Japanese Prime Minister Ryutaro Hashimoto arrived in Mexico on Tuesday on the first leg of a five-nation, 10-day tour of Latin America.
Although Hashimoto made no comments to reporters upon his arrival at the Mexico City airport just before 11:30 a.m. EDT (1530 GMT), he was expected to announce credits to Mexico worth $940 million during his three-day trip, Mexican officials said.
Deputy Foreign Minister Juan Rebolledo Gout said on Monday that the credits -- aimed at ecological projects, small- and medium-sized firms and Mexican exporters -- would be signed by Mexican and Japanese officials on Wednesday.
The support comes as Hashimoto seeks to open a new trade front for Japanese industry in Latin America. Tokyo has already pumped nearly $60 billion in direct investment into the region over the past 14 years and its economic aid doubled between 1990 and 1995 to $1.14 billion.
Hashimoto will hold talks with President Ernesto Zedillo on Wednesday and will meet members of the Japanese-Mexican community during his stay.
Mexico was the first stop on a trip that will also take him to Chile, Brazil, Peru and Costa Rica.
A potential cloud over his trip was lifted on Monday when kidnappers released a top Japanese electronics executive in the Mexican-U.S. border city of Tijuana after a $2 million ransom was paid.
After nine days in captivity, Mamoru Konno, president of a U.S. subsidiary of Japan's Sanyo Electric Co was found in the basement of an unoccupied building after a Mexican police official contacted kidnappers with the money.
Nobility Homes Inc said on Tuesday that preliminary sales for its third quarter ended August 3 were $9.8 million, 27 percent higher than the $7.7 million recorded in the third quarter last year.
"Our strong sales results continue to reflect our improving market share in Florida for our manufactured housing product," said Terry Trexler, president of the company, in a press release.
Nobility also said that with continued favorable mortgage rates and the additional retail sales centers acquired during the first quarter of the year, it expects to report an increase in sales for the fourth quarter of fiscal 1996 as well.
Pacific Finance and Securities Plc said on Tuesday it will issue up to 3.0 billion baht in unsecured debentures.
The company said in a filing to the Stock Exchange of Thailand all further details of the debentures will be determined later.
The debentures must be approved by shareholders at a meeting in October, the company said.
Foreland Corp said on Tuesday the Ghost Ranch No. 48-35 produced an average of approximately 700 barrels of oil per day during simulated production testing.
The Ghost Ranch well is the company's first well with production from the Devonian carbonates, which are typically prolific producers in Nevada, the company said.
The stabilized production rate will be used to finalize the design of the production facility, which should be installed within 60 days, Foreland said.
Foreland said it also has staked several additional drilling locations on the Ghost Ranch structure.
Foreland has a 60 percent working interest in the Ghost Ranch well and is the operator, while Barrett Resources Corp's Plains Petroleum has the remaining 40 percent.
Foreland also said drilling continues at the Pine Creek No. 1-7 exploratory well located in Eureka County, Nev.
The well, which is permitted to a depth of 9,000 feet, will evaluate numerous potential pay zones including the Devonian carbonates, Foreland said.
NOTE-- Year-ago exceptional charge reflects flotation costs.
Standard & Poor's Corp said on Tuesday it had given Mexican mining company Empresas Frisco an MXA-2 rating for its outstanding 400 million pesos of commercial paper.
"The rating considers the position of Frisco as an important producer in the mining and chemical industries that has benefited from the devaluation of the peso and the recovery of international prices, which gives it a greater product competitiveness," S&P said.
The commercial paper comes due September 16 and the company is expected to renew the debt.
Frisco produces lead-silver concentrates and zinc-gold concentrates, and its chemical division produces acids. Sales come 54 percent from its mining division, 33 percent from chemicals and 13 percent from construction.
The equipment will be supplied from September and will help Heilongjiang add 70,000 more portable phones by the end of this year, the company said in a statement.
In addition, the statement said the firm would be able to obtain 30 million yuan in loans for working capital from the Industrial and Commercial Bank of China (ICBC).
The company has signed an agreement for the money with the Hangzhou branch of ICBC, it said.
Eastern Communications is China's biggest mobile phone maker and is based in the eastern city of Hangzhou. It listed foreign currency B shares in Shanghai earlier this month.
The Reserve Bank of Australia (RBA) will pay a dividend of A$2.129 billion to the government in 1996/97 (July-June), budget papers show.
Dividends paid by Financial Enterprise (Banks) will fall 2.2 percent in 1996/97 from the A$2.176 billion paid in 1995/96, the government said.
The government no longer receives a dividend from the CBA following the sale of its remaining interest earlier this year.
The  RBA is required to pay its net earnings to the government after contingencies and appropriations to reserves under Reserve Bank Act 1959.
Petroleum royalties are expected to rise to A$289 million, a 45.8 percent increase on the A$198 million received in 1995/96.
This is due to higher production levels on the North West Shelfand increases in forecast petroleum prices, partly offset by slightly lower production in some oil fields off Western Australia, the budget papers said.
All up, Total Dividends and Other received by the government are expected to total A$4.009 billion in 1996/97, an increase of2.8 percent on the A$3.899 billion received in 1995/96.
The following bond was announced by lead manager Banque Nationale de Paris.
Dutch analysts are agreed dredger Boskalis will post a fall in first-half net profits on Friday, but vary widely in their estimates of how big the earnings slide will be.
Profit estimates range from 18.3 million guilders to 37.3 million, with the consensus at 30.1 million guilders. Last year the world's biggest dredging company posted first-half profits of 41.4 million guilders.
"First-half results will clearly come in lower than last year, but the question is how much lower," ING Barings' Paul Verbraeken said.
"Boskalis described capacity utilisation in the first half as 'moderate' and it depends how you interpret that," he added.
Verbraeken is forecasting first-half net of 36 million guilders or 1.39 guilders per share, a fall of 14 percent year-on-year.
Earnings would be supported by the acquisition of dredging firm De Holland and Boskalis' doubling of its stake in Finnish Terramare OY to 80 percent earlier this year, Verbraeken said.
"They're small, but every bit helps," he said. Verbraeken conceded he was "less negative than the market" on Boskalis, whose order books were well-filled.
By contrast Bank Labouchere's Sven Smit was extremely bearish on the dredger's first-half outlook, predicting net profit of 18.3 million guilders or 72 cents per share.
"There will undoubtedly be a major profit fall," he said. The protracted winter in Europe and a lack of major orders to compensate for the completion of lucrative projects in Hong Kong would drag down earnings, he said.
Longer term, however, the dredging market was seen picking up slightly although margins were at structurally lower levels, he said.
"The outlook for 1997 and 1998 is better," Smit said.
Deutsche Bank's Konrad Zomer is forecasting net of 32 million guilders, based on expectations of "reasonable" capacity utilisation generated in part by maintenance work.
"The firm will almost certainly post lower profits year-on-year, but it is difficult to gauge whether some orders were undertaken just in profit or at a marginal loss," he said.
The first half would have been difficult, but Boskalis' order portfolio -- pegged at just over one billion guilders in March -- was developing well, he added.
For the full year Zomer is forecasting net earnings of 2.60 guilders per share versus 2.79 in 1995.
But he added that in 1997 Boskalis' share of an 800 million guilder order to expand Singapore's Chiangi airport would work through into profits.
"The market is heading for an upturn in 1997," Zomer said, adding the increase in demand would likely be enough to absorb a 15 percent rise in capacity as three new jumbo suction hopper dredgers are taken into service late this year and early next.
The Canadian Auto Workers union said 400 members of its Local 1996 employed by Quaker Oats in Peterborough, Ontario, went on strike Tuesday.
The CAW said the workers were concerned about job security and wanted an improved pension plan.
"The company wants the right to lay off workers without regard to seniority," CAW national representative Jerry Dias said in a statement.
"Job security is a critical issue. We need protection with regard to outsourcing and respect for the fundamental principle of seniority is essential," he added.
Southwall Technologies Inc said on Tuesday it had entered into a supply contract with Flachglas Automotive GmbH of Witten, Germany, a subsidiary of Britain's Pilkington Plc.
In a statement, Southwall said Flachglas had placed an initial $1 million order for Southwall's Heat Mirror XIR transparent solar-control film.
Flachglas will incorporate the Heat Mirror XIR film in its new Siglasol and Sigladur laminated glass products, which are used in automobile windshields, sidelights and backlights.
Southwall Technologies designs and produces thin film coatings that absorb, reflect or conduct certain types of electromagnetic radiation.
Box Energy Corp's new but embattled President and Chief Executive Officer Don Box said on Tuesday there will be no "fire sale" of the company, despite rumors that his leadership would be tanatmount to an immediate sale.
August 8 Box Energy seated a new board that fired Tom Box as CEO and installed his brother Don, in what people close to the situation called a family war over control of the company.
In an open letter to stockholders dated Friday, Don Box said the company must develop a more strategic approach to exploration and production and get better control over costs.
Following are comments from U.S. economists after the Commerce Department reported that the June U.S. trade gap narrowed to $8.11 billion from a downwardly revised $10.55 billion in May.
Economists in a Reuters poll had been calling for a narrowing of the trade deficit to $9.4 billion in June.
TIM MCGEE, CHIEF ECONOMIST, TOKAI BANK LTD: "It was well below the concensus and is consistent with the slowdown we saw in June consumer spending.
"There was a pretty big drop in import demand, so it's consistent with the notion that we had a pickup in the spring due to some special factors that have started to dissipate.
MARY DENNIS, SENIOR ECONOMIST, MERRILL LYNCH: "The narrowing was more than we expected. There was more of a pronounced decline in imports than we expected. We're not really sure what it's from, except that the overall economy slowed in June and inventories were pretty flat.
MICHAEL STRAUSS, EXECUTIVE VICE PRESIDENT AND CHIEF ECONOMIST, YAMAICHI INTERNATIONAL (AMERICA) INC: "If we didn't have the FOMC meeting, this trade number would be a slight negative for the (bond) market. It may still be a slight negative, because there will be some economists who will have to raise their GDP numbers.
DAVID SLOAN, ECONOMIST, CONSULTING FIRM I.D.E.A. INC: "It's a quite good figure. You'll probably see Q2 GDP revised up little bit. Big fall in imports offset a marginal fall in exports.
"Quite subdued import figure will probably encourage hopes that the economy will slow and domestic demand will slow in the second half (of the year).
"Slight rise in the Japan deficit, but that's really a seasonal factor ... We were seing lower deficits than this in February and March, which suggest that maybe the trade deficit peaked in May."
Indonesia's military has pledged to rescue 13 forestry company workers held hostage in remote Irian Jaya province, the official Antara news agency reported on Tuesday.
"We will move to rescue them before long," army chief General Hartono was quoted as saying on Monday.
The hostages are employees of concessionaire PT Kamundan Raya, a subsidiary of the Djajanti Group. They were kidnapped last Wednesday when their base camp 60 km (37 miles) west of the town of Timika was attacked by a group of Irianese.
Timika is about 4,000 km (2,500 miles) east of Jakarta.
Hartono said the military thought the hostage-takers were criminals and not seperatist Free Papua Movement (OPM) rebels.
Antara gave no other details. Military officials in Irian Jaya said they had located the area where the hostages were being held and were ready to free them.
The kidnappers have sent sent three demands to the military in Irian Jaya: cessation of all logging; appointment of tribal leader Tom Beanal as a mediator; and the involvement of a human rights organisation in negotiations.
Beanal, an environmental activist, told Reuters from Timika, that he had not received the demand.
"Everything regarding this kidnapping is still vague. I don't have much idea of what's going on, so I think I don't want to get involved," he said by telephone.
Indonesia faces limited resistance to its rule in Irian, a former Dutch colony it seized in 1963, especially from the OPM.
The OPM held 11 hostages, including five Europeans, for more than four months to publicise its fight for a free Irian Jaya.
In May, four British, two Dutch and three Indonesian hostages held by the OPM escaped after the army tried to rescue them. Two Indonesian hostages were killed by their captors.
Jian Sing Bank has set a US$40 million floating rate certificate of deposit issue, bankers said.
Jian Sing Bank currently is 40 percent owned by China's state-held China Construction Bank and 60 percent owned by Dah Sing Financial Holdings.
Bankers said the facility has a maturity of three years.
But holders of the issue can put the certificates back to the borrower after two years if China Construction Bank does not hold more than 50 percent of Jian Sing Bank at that time.
China Construction Bank has an option to increase its share in the bank to up to 70 percent.
Holders of the paper also have the right to put the issue back to the borrower if Jian Sing ceases to be held exclusively by China Construction Bank and Dah Sing Financial Holdings.
The issue was priced at par to float at 65 basis points over the three-month London Interbank Offered Rate.
Management fees are 60 basis points for all levels.
Jardine Fleming and Schroders Asia arranged the deal.
Thistle Hotels Plc confirmed on Tuesday that it would be floating on the London Stock Exchange, with plans for a share offer which will kick off in September.
Thistle will use the cash raised to repay debt and invest in its hotel portfolio. The group is one of the biggest hotel groups in the UK.
Weekend press reports speculated that the float could value the company as high as 1.5 billion stg.
Thistle's parent company, Brierley Investments Ltd of New Zealand, is expected to retain a significant minority stake in the hotelier.
Brierley owns 70 percent of the company , with the remaining stake held by investment arms of the Goverment of Singapore.
In its interim results statement which reported a near doubling of pretax and pre-exceptional profits to 24.1 million stg, Thistle said an indicative price range will be accounced at the time of the share offer.
Under the float plans Brierley will reduce its stake to below 50 percent, said the Thistle press statement, with a reduction also expected by the Singapore government.
In addition, the UK hotelier expects to raise another 250 million stg of new money.
As part of its flotation plans Thistle will introduce an Owners Club which will give individual shareholders, with a minimum-sized holding, access to a range of benefits and discounts.
Small investors who buy shares and keep them will be known as Founder Members, enjoying greater benefits.
The minimum application for shares is 1,000 stg. Baring Brothers International Ltd will act as sponsor and financial adviser and Merrill Lynch International as global co-ordinator, bookrunner and stockbroker.
Thistle owns 64 four-star hotels out of a total of 100 with more than 13,500 bedrooms.
In its results statement for the 28 weeks to July 14, Thistle said occupancy levels and the average payment rate for rooms was up across all regions. It predicted a positive outlook for the British hotel market, affording opportunities for organic growth.
The group said its results were also boosted by a larger contribution from big-spender business and leisure guests.
Malaysian rubber prices were quoted higher at the close after tracking a rebound in Japanese futures but the market was desperately short of buyers and other genuinely positive factors, traders said.
"The market is really flat," said a dealer. "There were some enquirers from (South) Korea for some CV and 20 but they were just checking and not serious in buying."
Buyers were generally awaiting lower prices, said dealers.
At the close, the Malaysian Rubber Exchange and Licensing Board set market indicator price for September RSS1 buyer at 321 cents ($1.29) a kg, up 1.5 cents from Monday's close. September SMR20 buyer was one cent higher at 303 cents.
Trading houses offered the SMR20 at 303 cents, the SMR10 at 303 cents, SMR5 at 315-316, SMR CV at 378-80, SMR L at 360-65 and drum latex FOB at 252.
The INRO five-day average fell to 246.54 Malaysian/Singapore cents per kg on August 19 from 246.61 on August 18. The daily indicator dipped to 245.19 from 246.33.
The near-term fortunes of Swedish car maker AB Volvo, due to post its half-year results on Wednesday, are gloomy as the group battles with falling market share and higher costs, analysts said on Tuesday.
"The European car side is very disappointing, and Volvo has not yet achieved the volumes for the new small cars (S40/V40) that it expected, so it's going to be looking pretty grim," industry analyst Robert Barber of James Capel told Reuters.
Analysts polled by Reuters forecast a fall in Volvo's pre-tax earnings to 3.37 billion crowns for the first half of 1996 compared with 3.80 billion crowns for the corresponding period last year.
In its first quarter report, Volvo said operating income would be hit by the launch of new car and truck models as well as continuing investment in product and market development.
However, analysts rejected the idea that Volvo's falling profits are mainly due to a generation shift in the car and truck operations.
"It's not all down to difficulties in the production of their new car...they're also losing some market share," Barber said.
Barber said Volvo's forecast that its European car sales will rise in the second half of 1996 is questionable in the light of a 20 percent slump in European new car registrations.
Total European car sales rose six percent over the first seven months of the year, but Volvo saw its seven-month registrations figure fall 14.6 percent to 114,894 cars.
The Swedish manufacturer's woes were compounded by a slump of no less than 35 percent in July sales, bringing its European market share to a modest 1.5 percent.
In the United States, Volvo's Truck division has been hardest hit. Intense competition and a fall in total volumes have cut Volvo sales by 31 percent in the first half of 1996 with only 9,300 trucks sold compared with 13,500 a year ago.
Some analysts see last week's replacement of Volvo Trucks' top management in the United States -- just a week before the half-year report -- as a sign of panic.
Sales have also fared badly in South America with a drop of 50 percent to 2,350 trucks, mainly due to a decline in the Brazilian market, which accounts for 70 percent of sales in the region.
Analysts were divided on whether Volvo Trucks' shrinking market share is wholly due to the launch of a new model range in the autumn.
Bjorn Germer of Sweden's Matteus stockbrokers said he did not believe the launch of a new model was the only reason for Volvo Truck's recent misfortunes.
"Everyone knows the North American market is poor right now for Volvo, we want to see (in the half-year report) how bad the sitution is there," Germer said.
BZW analyst Philip Ayton said the eyes of the market would be firmly on the trucks division when Volvo presents its half-year report on Wednesday.
"North America has been flat for cars, terrible for trucks and there's been a change of management. I don't know if that's an indication of something a lot worse in way of earnings but clearly the American truck business is in loss and has probably worsened," Ayton said.
Russian companies will be able to issue bonds to the finance ministry to settle some of their tax arrears, allowing the government to raise at least part of the money it is owed, a finance ministry official said on Tuesday.
A new decree signed by President Boris Yeltsin allows companies to issue bonds to cover tax owed up to the beginning of this year, Valentina Pryanichnikova, head of the ministry's issues department, told Reuters.
The government decides what proportion of a company's tax arrears can be covered by bonds.
The ministry can hold the bonds to maturity, or sell them on the free market, she said.
The decree orders the finance ministry and Federal Commission on the Capital Markets to set terms for bond issues and sales.
"There will be a tax shortfall, no doubt," Pryanichnikova said. "But the situation is such when all measures are good."
The Russian economy is burdened by a widespread failure to pay bills, with government and companies not paying many wages, companies not paying bills to each other, and companies not paying taxes.
Russia has only collected 60 percent of budgeted taxes so far this year prompting the International Monetary Fund to delay payment of the July tranche of its $10 billion loan because of concerns about the impact on fiscal policy.
Pryanichnikova said budget revenues from the decree would depend on the maturity of the bonds and the financial situation of companies. The government still has to define which companies will be allowed to issue bonds, their maturity and which property can be taken as collateral against the bonds.
These are some of the leading stories in the Jordanian press on Tuesday. Reuters has not verified these stories and does not vouch for their accuracy.
- King Hussein: We are serious about fighting corruption and implementing self-sufficiency. I have no thoughts of adjusting or changing the government and will not take any steps in this atmosphere. Our relations with Saudi Arabia are continuous and we will not forget they stood by us in all our ordeals.
- Prime Minister Abdul-Karim al-Kabariti denies any plans to reshuffle government. Says the situation is calm and government will continue its programme.
- Complete calm prevails in southern governorates.
- 150 people arrested for suspected involvement in violence or agitation.
- King says no intention or even thought to change government. Normal life returns slowly to Karak.
- At least 40 leftist activists among 150 rounded up after riots in the south.
- Eleven professional associations reject opposition calls for government's resignation.
- Kabariti and Karak deputy Nazih Ammarin reconcile after Ammarin's "temporary exile" in Amman, sources say.
- King Hussein: We will not meet disobedience with concessions.
- Kabariti tells ministries to prepare 1997 budgets.
- King Hussein says rioters were linked to Iraq and investigations will show just how large Iraqi involvement was.
- Curfew on Karak expected to be lifted today.
Shares in Dutch tank storage and shipping group Pakhoed NV steamed five percent higher after an initial fall as investors digested a surprise 59.5 million guilder fall in net from ordinary operations.
The group posted first half net before extraordinaries of 4.6 million guilders, sharply below expectations of between 55 and 63 million. The firm also announced a 54.3 million guilder extraordinary charge.
The stock fell 1.30 guilders, or almost three percent, to 43.30 guilders before recovering to trade 2.30 guilders higher, or 5.4 percent, at 46.90 guilders.
The group was upbeat about prospects for the rest of the year. It said net profit from ordinary operations in the second half of 1996 would be "clearly higher" than in the same period of 1995.
Taiwan food giant President Enterprises Corp said on Tuesday its January-July pretax profits rose to T$1.735 billion from T$1.214 billion in the 1995 period.
Its January-July sales rose to T$15.56 billion from T$14.88 billion a year earlier, the firm said in a statement.
President Enterprises, Taiwan's largest processed food company, has set a 1996 pretax profit target of T$4.6 billion on sales of T$27.2 billion.
First Merchants Corp said Tuesday it had increased by 20 percent its quarterly dividend to $0.24 per share.
It said it had reported annual first-half earnings of $1.02 per share, 5.2 percent more than the $0.97 made during the same period in 1995.
First Merchants also said it had reached a definitive agreement to merge with Randolph County Bancorp from Winchester, IN sometime in the third quarter of 1996.
Otis Elevator Co Ltd expected a coming boom in China's housing sector to give a lift to its sales, company officials said on Tuesday.
Beijing's plan to increase the average per capita living space to 12 from seven square metres by 2000 would provide huge opportunities for Otis, Pier Luigi Foschi, executive vice president of Otis' Pacific Asia division, told a news briefing.
The firm's sales in China grew last year by 30 percent to about $300 million and were expected to increase a further 20 percent this year, Foschi said.
Foschi estimated China's elevator and escalator demand to be as high as 32,000 units a year, making it the largest market in the world.
Otis has invested $100 million in joint ventures in Beijing, Shanghai, Tianjin and Guangzhou, employing 5,000 people.
NOTE - Tokki Corp is a maker of factory automation equipment.
Sun International Hotels Ltd. has agreed to acquire Griffin Gaming & Entertainment Inc., formerly Resorts International, in a stock exchange worth about $210 million, the companies said Monday.
Entertainer and investor Merv Griffin, chairman of Griffin Gaming, controls about 25 percent of the stock of Griffin Gaming, which operates a casino hotel in Atlantic City, N.J.
Sun decided to acquire Griffin Gaming because of the planned expansion of Griffin's Resorts hotel and the lure of gaining an immediate presence in Atlantic City, N.J., Sun Chairman Sol Kerzner said.
"We believe teaming up with Merv Griffin is a dynamic way for Sun International to enter the Atlantic City market and combines Sun International's development strengths and Merv Griffin's legendary entertainment skills," Kerzner, who is also chief executive of Bahamas-based Sun International, said in a statement.
Kerzner said in a conference call that the company might not have been interested in pursuing the acquisition without the expansion plans.
Griffin Gaming's proposed $200 million expansion of the 662-room Resorts Hotel would make the complex as large as the Taj Mahal casino, Atlantic City's largest. The Taj Mahal is owned by Trump Hotels & Casino Resorts Inc.
Resorts is being enlarged by 700 rooms and 70,000 square feet of casino space, the company said.
The prospect of Sun opening a Connecticut gaming facility near the Foxwoods Casino added to the deal's allure for Griffin's shareholders, Griffin Gaming Chief Executive Thomas Gallagher said.
The acquisition would reunite Sun's Paradise Island property in the Bahamas, which once part of Resorts, with Griffin Gaming.
Griffin Gaming Chairman Merv Griffin, who will hold about 4 percent of Sun International, said he was impressed with what Kerzner did with Paradise Island after Sun bought it.
Griffin has owned Resorts International for eight years, during which time the company restructured twice, Griffin said. A Griffin spokesman said separately the company had declared bankruptcy under one of the reorganizations.
"Our merger with Sun International will begin a brand new era for Resorts," Merv Griffin said. "Sol Kerzner and I have joined to create a formidable leader in the gaming industry in which I will have a significant shareholding.
For Sun International, the deal puts the company into the Atlantic City market faster than its plan to buy land adjoining a proposed MGM Grand Inc. resort, Kerzner said.
Under the deal, each share of Griffin common stock will be traded for 0.4324 ordinary shares of Sun International. Sun International's stock closed at $51.875 on Friday, implying a purchase price of $22.43 for each share of Griffin's common stock.
On Monday, Sun International stock fell 12.5 cents to $51.75, while Griffin rose 37.5 cents to $12.25. The deal was announced after the close of trading.
State officials said Alaska has tightened air pollution controls on Ketchikan Pulp Co., a major logging firm that has been under scrutiny in recent years for its air and water pollution practices.
Officials said the firm was granted a new air-quality permit based on a recent decree that mandates reductions in sulphur dioxide emissions and controls of several other air pollutants.
The new permit, issued by state environmental authorities, was filed on Friday.
Ketchikan Pulp, owned by Louisiana-Pacific Corp., operates a dissolving-pulp mill in Ketchikan, Alaska, and sawmills in the area. It is the biggest timber operator in southeast Alaska's Tongass National Forest.
India would try to put 145 private sector proposals to build power plants in a "fast track" category for government approval, along the lines of seven units now in the pipeline, a senior official said on Tuesday.
"All the fast track projects would be cleared by September 30," Power Secretary P. Abraham, the most senior civil servant in the power department, told a meeting of U.S. and Indian representatives on the energy sector.
India, which wants major foreign investment to meet a huge power shortfall, had marked eight proposals it considered as practically viable for "fast track" approval with federal guarantees to lure billions of dollars in investment.
One of the companies later withdrew, saying it did not need a federal government guarantee to ensure payments for the power it produced.
"The power sector is the story of the '90s with respect to Indo-U.S relations," said Dirk Forrister, head of the U.S. delegation said.
Industry estimates say that India, which has an installed capacity of 87,000 megawatts per year, would have an additional demand for 142,000 megawatts by 2007.
State-owned companies and the non-conventional sector are expected to contribute a total of 55,000 megawatts, and an investment of $223 billion is estimated to be necessary to make up the shortfall.
Indian opened up its power the sector under an economic reform programme launched in 1991. U.S. firms Enron Corp and CMS Energy Corp have been front-runners among foreign power generation firms making use of India's open-door policies.
"The new government is very keen to streamline the programmes to speed up the process," Abraham said.
He added the government was also in the process of reforming unprofitable state-run electricity boards. Their financial health has raised doubts among foreign investors who would have to sell electricity to the boards.
"Electricity boards need to become better paymasters and steps are being taken to make electricity boards more viable to foreign investment," Abraham said.
NOTE - Yaohan International Holdings operates department stores and retails consumer products.
Total dividend for year is 13.4 H.K. cents (including interim dividend of 4.5 cents) vs 13.4 cents.
U.S. shares trading in London were largely static on caution ahead of the FOMC meeting later today, traders said.
"It's very quiet," said one dealer, "We're waiting for the Fed to meet today and not much else is happening."
The Dow closed up 9.9 points on Monday to 5,699.44 in one of the slowest trading days of the year.
The September T-bond future was trading at 110-29/32, unchanged from the Chicago settlement.
The September S&P index future was up 0.8 points at 669.0.
Among individual U.S. share movers in London traders said demand for Philip Morris was continuing after recent weakness in tobacco shares.
The shares were up $3/8 at $90-1/4 after gaining $1-1/4 to $89-7/8 in New York on Monday.
The shares were down $1/8 at $28-1/2 ahead of an announcement about the joint venture expected at 1100 EDT today.
General Motors was down $1/8 at $51-1/4 in sympathy.
News that AT&T Corp's president, Alex Mandl, had resigned to head a new start-up company weighed on the shares. AT&T was down $1/8 at $54 in London trade.
Shares in Shell Transport led the oil sector higher in premarket dealings, tracking a firmer U.S. oil sector and higher crude oil prices, traders said.
Shell shares were indicated 7p higher to 955p. Shares in British Petroleum were indicated up 3-1/2p to 634p.
Light crude oil for September delivery closed 60 cents higher at $23.26 per barrel on the New York Mercantile Exchange.
Brent crude oil for October delivery on the International Petroleum Exchange yesteday closed at $20.85 per barrel, after reaching a four-month high of $20.98 per barrel.
Forecasts that demand for oil will remain brisk, thus buoying crude oil prices, has heightened expectations for strong earnings from major oil companies worldwide, traders said.
Shares in U.S. oil concerns rallied in New York, with Exxon Corp adding $1-1/8 to $83-1/2, Texaco Inc gaining $1-3/8 to $89-1/8 and Chevron Corp rising $7/8 to $60.
Year		     Amount    Coupon     Yield     Price  Conc.
Finnish food and chemicals group Raision Tehtaat Oy said in a statement on Tuesday its net sales target in Poland this year was 300 million markka.
"The (Polish) company's managing director Seppo Heinio says that this year's objective is a turnover of FIM 300 million," Raisio said.
"Raisio has achieved a 12 percent share of the fast-growing Polish margarine market within the space of a few years," it said. It said the market was growing about five percent a year.
Raisio said its Polish subsidiary Raisio Polska Foods>has 190 employees of which 120 work in production.
It said the C.Olsen Foods margarine factory bought at the end of last year is "modern and in very good condition".
State oil monopoly Petroleos Mexicanos (Pemex) said Tuesday it had taken preventive measures against tropical storm Dolly ahead of the system's entrance into the Mexican Gulf.
"This afternoon the transfer to dry land began of workers carrying out support work on sea installations, leaving behind just operational personnel," the company said in a statement.
"Pemex authorities will be watching the trajectory and intensity of this weather system in order to apply other emergency actions, as happened in October last year because of the presence of the hurricanes Opal and Roxanne in the area," the company said.
payments for overfl. of marg.
Jan-May '95 (USD=29.909 SKK).
Thistle Hotels, Britain's second biggest hotel chain, said Tuesday its pre-tax profits almost doubled in the first half of the year.
The company, which plans an initial public offering of stock in September, said its net income, excluding exceptional items, expanded to 24.1 million pounds ($37.2 million).
However, profits were hit by a one-time charge of 87.8 million pounds ($135.5 million) to partly account for a 10 percent cut in the valuation of its hotel portfolio to 1.7 billion pounds ($2.6 billion).
Thistle owns some 100 hotels, including such luxury names as London's Grosvenor and Royal Horseguards hotels.
Market watchers say its initial public offering could value the group at between one billion and 1.5 billion pounds ($1.5 billion and $2.3 billion).
Thistle plans to raise 250 million pounds ($386 million) in cash through the offer. About 100 million to 150 million pounds ($155 to $232 million) would be used to reduce debt, with the remaining being invested in expanding room capacity, Chief Executive Robert Peel said.
"We would focus the money on London -- the region where we get the best returns," he said in an interview.
Thistle said a price range would be announced at the time of the stock offering, which has no fixed date so far.
compared to I/B/E/S mean to calculate a surprise factor.
The Bank of England said that it bought 50 million stg of bills/floating rate gilts for resale to the market in equal amounts on September 4 and 5 at 5-23/32 percent.
NOTE: Period ended July 28 vs July 30.
SFX Broadcasting Inc said on Tuesday it has signed a binding agreement to acquire ABS Communications LLC, which will own four Richmond, Va., FM radio stations, for $37.5 million.
ABS owns two stations in Richmond and also has rights to buy two additional stations, said SFX, which already owns one FM station in the Richmond market.
SFX said it will acquire WVGO(FM) and WLEE(FM) for $14.5 million, the company said. Simultaneously with this deal, an SFX unit will acquire WKHK(FM) and WBZU(FM) from ABS Communications for $23.0 million.
Ken Brown, president of ABS, and Ed Conrad, chief financial officer of ABS, will continue to hold a small equity stake in the group of stations and will manage them, SFX said.
Australia's new conservative government said it would hand down a "fair" budget on Tuesday night, but budget opponents rallied for a second day outside parliament, the scene of a riot the day before.
The five-month-old Liberal-National government was to announce its budget to June 30, 1997 at 0930 GMT. The budget will be its first and the first for a conservative Australian government in 14 years.
"It's going to be a fair budget, and we are looking forward to putting in place the measures that will help families and small businesses and get Australia moving," Treasurer Peter Costello told reporters on Tuesday morning.
The government has promised to cut A$4.0 billion (US$3.0 billion) from its maiden budget in a tough fiscal programme aimed at achieving a budget surplus within three years. The budget deficit for 1995/96 was A$10.3 billion.
But the sharp spending cuts already announced have provoked angry protests across Australia from workers, students, Aborigines and welfare groups.
Monday's riot outside parliament house began during a rally in the capital by up to 15,000 unionists, aborigines, students, welfare and other community groups.
Police in riot gear fought for two hours to control hundreds of protesters who stormed the foyer of Parliament House.
Aboriginal organisers of Tuesday's protest have promised a peaceful rally. About 600 Aborigines gathered for an overnight protest on the lawns of old parliament house.
The government has announced funding cuts of A$400 million for indigenous people over the next four years.
Financial markets are concerned about Australia's chronic national savings and external debt problems and are counting on Costello slashing the budget deficit, hopefully by more than the forecast A$4.0 billion.
Canberra, committed to no extra tax revenue, has already announced big spending cuts in aboriginal affairs, higher education and programmes to help the jobless find work.
Ideally, markets want a bottom-line underlying deficit of at most A$5.0 billion, half the 1995/96 shortfall. The underlying deficit excludes one-off items such as asset sales.
Note: Period ended June 30.
Failed Australian businessman Alan Bond was sentenced to three years in jail on Tuesday for fraud involving the French impressionist painting, La Promenade.
In sentencing Bond, Western Australia District Court Judge Antoinette Kennedy said that while the jail term was not the maximum 14 years she could impose, it would seem like a "life sentence" to Bond.
Bond, 58, who became a national hero in 1983 for backing Australia's capture of the America's Cup yachting trophy, had appealed for a non-custodial sentence. His lawyer argued that a jail term could kill him because of his failing health.
But Kennedy said she was satisfied that Bond's "health problems could be monitored within the prison system". Bond said he suffers from blood pressure and heart problems.
"The sentence I intend to impose on you, you will not regard as lenient, but many in the community will," Kennedy said. "When I speak of the community I do not speak of the vicious and the hate-filled -- they are insatiable -- but reasonable members of the community.
"Such people must understand that time in prison goes a lot slower than time outside ... and that any prison sentence is a life sentence in a sense for someone in your position, in that you can not sink into anonymity, but it will follow you for ever."
Last Friday, Bond was found guilty of improperly using his position as director of his former corporate flagship, Bond Corporation Holdings, to allow his private company to buy Edouard Manet's La Promenade from Bond Corp for A$2.5 million (US$1.9 million), when its value was at least A$12 million.
Bond's Dallhold Investments Pty Ltd sold the painting a year later at auction in New York for A$17 million.
The Australian Securities Commission, the nation's corporate watchdog, brought four fraud charges against Bond for his 1988 actions.
Kennedy said Bond's passion for art and his inability to accept that Bond Corp was not longer his "fiefdom" combined to encourage him to commit the fraud offences.
Bond's lawyers said he would appeal the conviction.
ABB Switzerland, a unit of electrical engineering group ABB Asea Brown Boveri AG, said it did not expect any easing of the tough competitive pressure in power plant business and it expects the 1996 results of the entire group to be below 1995.
ABB Switzerland's chairman Edwin Somm said in a statement that there are still excess capacities worldwide in the power plant business, resulting in a tough competitive situation.
Together with the Swiss franc, which remains strong, this has affected prices and profit margins, which could not be fully compensated by cost-reduction measures.
"Although the divisions Power Transmission and Distribution as well as Industrial and Building Systems are at the level of the preceeding year, for the 1996 business year one has to depart from the assumption that the result of the previous year will not be achieved."
ABB Switzerland's net profit rose to 340 million Swiss francs in 1995 from 285 million. For the first six months of 1996, ABB Switzerland reported a seven percent drop in net profit to 139 million francs.
British mortgage figures on Tuesday showed that lending in July surged to a six year high, suggesting Britain's housing market recovery was gathering pace and resisting a traditional summer lull.
Net new mortgages worth 3.8 billion sterling ($5.9 billion) were approved last month, the highest since November 1990, despite the torpor that normally afflicts this market during the holiday season, the Building Societies Association said.
"Approvals remained strong in July," said BSA deputy director-general Ron Armstrong. "Transactions have been increasing since April and house prices have also been rising, encouraging more sellers into the market."
The figures from the building societies, who provide many of Britain's home loans, showed 53,000 new mortgages were approved in July, the highest monthly number since March 1994.
The figures will be welcome news for the beleaguered British government. Some 67 percent of the population are houseowners, most of whom felt the pain of house price falls of up to 30 percent in the 1990s.
City analysts say the depressed housing market has been a key factor inhibiting the so-called "feelgood factor".
The BSA figures were not the only good news for British houseowners on Tuesday.
A Royal Institution of Chartered Surveyors (RICS) survey and post-results comment from the Halifax Building Society also combined to put a positive gloss on the UK housing market.
The RICS survey showed the housing market's pick-up, first seen in London and the South-East, was now spreading across the length and breadth of Britain. House prices in all regions of England and Wales held steady or rose in July, it said.
"It is a measure of the market's vigour that -- at this traditionally quiet period -- many agents reported that there were still not enough new instructions to meet demand," it said.
In other words, not enough houses came on to the market to match the number of potential buyers.
The Halifax Building Society also did its best to talk the housing market up. Reporting a six percent rise in underlying half-year profits, the Halifax said housing showed clear signs of recovery in the first six months of 1996.
Halifax spokesman Gary Marsh said house price inflation of five to seven percent was expected over the next year. "All the signs are that the recovery is sustainable," he said.
He added that mortgage rates, already at their lowest level in 30 years, may not fall further even if finance minister Kenneth Clarke pushed through another cut in base rates, currently at 5.75 percent.
Despite all the good news on housing, analysts noted that official figures at least suggested the level of transactions remains muted at best. But here too, a pick-up is expected.
"The official Inland Revenue figures covering transactions have been weak but anecdotal evidence suggests buying and selling has been much stronger," said Rob Thomas, building societies analyst at UBS.
He said transactions would pick up in the second half of the year and expected house prices to rise by at least six percent next year. "The hype about a return to boom conditions is overdone but the good news is we think this recovery can continue for a good many years."
Marsh at the Halifax added transactions remained at low levels "but are coming back quite nicely."
But Armstrong warned that memories of the collapse in housing prices in recent years, remained fresh in the memory.
